oceanography has been defined as " the application of all sciences to the study of the sea " .
before the nineteen century , scientists with an interest in the sea were few and far between .
certainly newton considered some theoretical aspects of it in his writings , but he was reluctant to go to sea to further his work .
for most people the sea was remote , and with the exception of early intercontinental travelers or others who earned a living from the sea , there was little reason to ask many questions about it , let alone to ask what lay beneath the surface .
the first time that question " what is at the bottom of the oceans ? "
had to be answered with any commercial consequence was when the laying of a telegraph cable from europe to america was proposed .
the engineers had to know the depth profile of the route to estimate the length of cable that had to be manufactured .
it was to maury of the us navy that the atlantic telegraph company turned , in 1853 , for information on this matter .
in the 1840s , maury had been responsible for encouraging voyages during which soundings were taken to investigate the depths of the north atlantic and pacific oceans .
later , some of his findings aroused much popular interest in his book the physical geography of the sea .
the cable was laid , but not until 1866 was the connection made permanent and reliable .
at the early attempts , the cable failed and when it was taken out for repairs it was found to be covered in living growths , a fact which defied contemporary scientific opinion that there was no life in the deeper parts of the sea .
within a few years oceanography was under way .
in 1872 thomson led a scientific expedition , which lasted for four years and brought home thousands of samples from the sea .
their classification and analysis occupied scientists for years and led to a five-volume report , the last volume being published in 1895 .
normally a student must attend a certain number of courses in order to graduate , and each course which he attends gives him a credit which he may count towards a degree .
in many american universities the total work for a degree consists of thirty-six courses each lasting for one semester .
a typical course consists of three classes per week for fifteen weeks ; while attending a university a student will probably attend four or five courses during each semester .
normally a student would expect to take four years attending two semesters each year .
it is possible to spread the period of work for the degree over a longer period .
it is also possible for a student to move between one university and another during his degree course , though this is not in fact done as a regular practice .
for every course that he follows a student is given a grade , which is recorded , and the record is available for the student to show to prospective employers .
all this imposes a constant pressure and strain of work , but in spite of this some students still find time for great activity in student affairs .
elections to positions in student organizations arouse much enthusiasm .
the effective word of maintaining discipline is usually performed by students who advise the academic authorities .
any student who is thought to have broken the rules , for example , by cheating has to appear before a student court .
with the enormous numbers of students , the operation of the system does involve a certain amount of activity .
a student who has held one of these positions of authority is much respected and it will be of benefit to him later in his career .
do you find getting up in the morning so difficult that it ’ s painful ?
this might be called laziness , but dr . kleitman has a new explanation .
he has proved that everyone has a daily energy cycle .
during the hours when you labor through your work you may say that you ’ re " hot " .
that ’ s true .
the time of day when you feel most energetic is when your cycle of body temperature is at its peak .
for some people the peak comes during the afternoon .
for others it comes in the afternoon or evening .
no one has discovered why this is so , but it leads to such familiar monologues as : " get up , john !
you ’ ll be late for work again ! "
the possible explanation to the trouble is that john is at his temperature-and-energy peak in the evening .
much family quarrelling ends when husbands and wives realize what these energy cycles mean , and which cycle each member of the family has .
you can ’ t change your energy cycle , but you can learn to make your life fit it better .
habit can help , dr . kleitman believes .
maybe you ’ re sleepy in the evening but feel you must stay up late anyway .
counteract your cycle to some extent by habitually staying up later than you want to .
if our energy is low in the morning but you have an important job to do early in the day , rise before your usual hour .
this won ’ t change your cycle , but you ’ ll get up steam and work better at your low point .
get off to a slow start which saves your energy .
get up with a leisurely yawn and stretch .
sit on the edge of the bed a minute before putting your feet on the floor .
avoid the troublesome search for clean clothes by laying them out the night before .
whenever possible , do routine work in the afternoon and save tasks requiring more energy or concentration for your sharper hours .
we find that bright children are rarely held back by mixed ability teaching .
on the contrary , both their knowledge and experience are enriched .
we feel that there are many disadvantages in streaming pupils .
it does not take into account the fact that children develop at different rates .
it can have a bad effect on both the bright and the not-so-bright child .
after all , it can be quite discouraging to be at the bottom of the top grade !
besides , it is rather unreal to grade people just according to their intellectual ability .
this is only one aspect of their total personality .
we are concerned to develop the abilities of all our pupils to the full , not just their academic ability .
we also value personal qualities and social skills , and we find that mixed-ability teaching contributes to all these aspects of learning .
in our classrooms , we work in various ways .
the pupils often work in groups : this gives them the opportunity to learn to co-operate , to share , and to develop leadership skills .
they also learn how to cope with personal problems as well as learning how to think , to make decisions , to analyze and evaluate , and to communicate effectively .
the pupils learn from each other as well as from the teacher .
sometimes the pupils work in pairs ; sometimes they work on individual tasks and assignments , and they can do this at their own speed .
they also have some formal class teaching when this is appropriate .
we encourage our pupils to use the library , and we teach them the skills they need in order to do this efficiently .
an advanced pupil can do advanced work : it does not matter what age the child is .
we expect our pupils to do their best , not their least , and we give them every encouragement to attain this goal .
you are a german living in berlin .
one day you ’ re walking down the street , minding your own business , when suddenly a stranger approached with a smile on his face .
after stopping you , he holds a small electronic device close to his face and speaks slowly into it , saying , in english : " can you tell me where i can buy some sauerkraut ? "
what should you do ?
( a ) run away ; ( b ) call the police ; or , ( c ) listen closely for the device to say , in german , " konnen sie mir bitte sager , which sauerkraut kaufen kann ? "
the most appropriate response would be ( c ) because the person in front of you is only a tourist trying to enjoy himself .
the device is said to he the world ’ s first portable transistor — a hand-held microcomputer that — at the same time converts one spoken language into another .
the four-pound battery-operated product is called the voice , and it is the creation of advanced products and technologies an american electronics company .
when the voice is introduced in the united states in late april — at a price of $ 1,500 — it will be capable of converting spoken english into italian , german , french and spanish .
the product comes with separate cartridges for each of the four languages , which can be changed when the user travels from one country to another .
the item will be sold in europe soon after the u . s . introduction , with cartridges that covert italian , german , french and spanish into english .
the voice uses a microchip and artificial intelligence to translate languages .
it is started by voice command and produces voice output through a built-in speaker .
then the user makes a statement or asks a question , the voice immediately repeats what has been said in another language .
computers may one day turn night into day — with good old , natural sunlight .
colossal computer-controlled mirrors , thousands of feet across , may one day orbit the earth , reflecting sunlight onto a darkened united states .
some scientists say that 16 of these mirrors , each about a half mile across , could aim their reflected light at one area on the earth that was about 200 miles by 300 miles .
that much light would equal about 56 moons .
the mirrors would be so high that they could catch the sun ’ s light as it was shining on the other side of the earth .
the mirrors could orbit — thousands of miles high — at the same speed as the earth turns on its axis .
that way , the mirrors would always be over the same spot .
the aluminum-coated , plastic mirrors could be folded up and packed into a spaceship , according to the scientists .
once released a few hundred miles in space , the mirrors , powered by a solar-powered engine , could mark the rest of the trip into space on their own .
the scientists say that the computer-controlled mirrors could also be made to tilt slowly , so the reflected sunlight would sweep slowly along the surface of the earth .
for example , as night fell , the mirrors could be tilted to light up boston .
later on , as darkness spread slowly westward .
chicago , for example , then san francisco could be lit up .
the reflected sunlight would allow these cities to save up electricity .
and in emergencies , such as power-failures , the mirrors could light up the affected area .
what no one knows yet is what effect this artificial daytime would have on plants , animals , and humans .
would it confuse some animals and harm plants that are used to regular day-night cycles ?
the scientists recommend that studies be done to find out what had effects there might be .
as supplier of most of the food we eat and of raw materials for many industrial processes , agriculture is clearly an important area of the economy .
but the industrial performance of agriculture is even more important than this .
for in nations where the productivity of farmers is low , most of the working population is needed to raise food and few people are available for production of investment goods or for other activities required for economic growth .
indeed , one of the factors related most closely to the per capital income of a nation is the fraction of its population engaged in farming .
in the poorest nations of the world more than half of the population lives on farms .
this compares sharply with less than 10 per cent in western europe and less than 4 per cent in the united states .
in short , the course of economic development in general depends in a fundamental way on the performance of farmers .
this performance in turn , depends on how agriculture is organized and on the economic environment , or market structure , within which it function .
in the following pages the performance of american agriculture is examined .
it is appropriate to begin with a conversation of its market structure .
before 1945 , hardly anyone outside of new mexico had ever heard of alamogordo .
in 1960 its population numbered 21,723 .
ever since 1898 , when the town had been built by the southern pacific railroad , alamogordo had been a lonely town .
the land around it was largely desert , and largely empty .
because it was isolated and because the weather was almost always clear and peaceful , a spot of desert near alamogordo was chosen as the last site for the first atomic bomb ever exploded .
the secret name of the test was zeo .
at dawn on july 16 , 1945 , the atomic bomb was set off .
observers agreed that they had witnessed something unlike anything ever seen by men before , a huge , colorful fireball , more brilliant than the sun flashing as it rose for miles into the air .
never before had men released so much power at one time , nor had any nation ever possessed weapon as terrible and destructive as the atomic bomb .
for several weeks , the test was kept secret .
when an atomic bomb was dropped from an american plane on hiroshima , japan , newspapers and radio stations all over america told of the test of the bomb in new mexico .
almost everybody was amazed to learn where the bomb had been made and tested ; the deserts of the southwest had hidden the secret well .
when news of the atomic bomb and its destructiveness was announced , people all over the world wondered what other new weapons were being prepared in the new mexico desert .
some people doubted that the secret of making atomic bombs could be kept from other countries .
some even doubted the wisdom of using so powerful a weapon .
but no one doubted that a new kind of war — and a new kind of world — had begun at alamogordo , one summer morning in 1945 .
the aim of the teacher is to get his pupils as quickly as possible over the period in which each printed symbol is looked at for its shape , and arrive at the stage when the pupil looks at words and phrases , for their meaning , almost without noticing the shapes of the separate letters .
when a good reader is at work he does not look at letters , nor even at words , one by one however quickly ; he takes in the meaning of two , three , or four words at a time , in a single moment .
watch carefully the eyes of a person who is reading , and it will be seen that they do not travel smoothly along the lines of print , but they move by jumps separated by very short stops .
the eyes of a very good reader move quickly , taking long jumps and making very short halts ; the eyes of a poor reader move more slowly , taking only short jumps and stopping longer at each halt .
sometimes , when he meets a difficulty , he even goes backwards to see again what has already been looked at once .
the teacher ’ s task is therefore clear : it is to train his pupils to take in several words at a glance ( one eye-jump ’ ) and to remove the necessity for going backwards to read something a second time .
this shows at once that letter-by-letter , or syllable-by-syllable , or word-by-word reading , with the finger pointing to the word , carefully fixing each one in turn , is wrong .
it is wrong because such a method ties the pupil ’ s eyes down to a very short jump , and the aim is to train for the long jump .
moreover , a very short jump is too short to provide any meaning or sense ; and it will be found that having struggled with three or four words separately , the pupil has to look at them again , all together and in one group , in order to get the meaning of the whole phrase .
television has changed the lifestyle of people in every industrialized country in the world .
in the united states , where sociologists have studied the effects , some interesting observations have been made .
television , although not essential , has become an important part of most people ’ s lives .
it alters peoples ’ ways of seeing the world ; in many ways , it supports and sustains modern life .
television has become a baby-sitter , an introducer of conversations , the major transmitter of culture , a keeper of tradition .
yet when what can be seen on tv in one day is critically analyzed , it becomes evident that television is not a teacher but a sustainer ; the poor quality of programming does not elevate people into greater understanding , but rather maintains and encourages the life as it exists .
the primary reason for the lack of quality in american television is related to both the history of tv programming development and the economics of tv .
television in america began with the radio .
radio companies and their sponsors first experimented with television .
therefore , the close relationship which the advertisers had with radio programs became the system for american tv .
sponsors not only paid money for time within programs , but many actually produced the programs .
thus , in american society , television is primarily concerned with reflecting and attracting society rather than experimenting with new ideas .
advertisers want to attract the largest viewing audience possible , to do so requires that the programs be entertaining rather than educational , attractive rather than challenging .
television in america today remains , to a large extent , with the same organization and standards as it had thirty years ago .
the hope for further development and true achievement toward improving society will require a change in the entire system .
" ... we are not about to enter the information age but instead are rather well into it . "
present predictions are that by 1990 , about thirty million jobs in the united states , or about thirty percent of the job market , will be computer-related .
in 1980 , only twenty-one percent of all united states high schools owned one or more computers for student use .
in the fall of 1985 , a new survey revealed that half of united states secondary schools have fifteen or more computers for student use .
and now educational experts , administrators , and even the general public are demanding that all students become " computer literate . "
" by the year 2000 knowledge of computers will be necessary in over eighty percent of all occupations .
soon those people not educated in computer use will be compared to those who are print illiterate today . "
what is " computer literacy " ?
the term itself seems to imply soon extent of " knowing " about computers , but knowing what .
the current opinion seems to be that this should include a general knowledge of what computers are , plus a little of their history and something of how they operate .
therefore , it is vital that educators everywhere take a careful look not only at what is being done , but also at what should be done in the field of computer education .
today most adults are capable of utilising a motor vehicle without the slightest knowledge of how the internal-combustion engine works .
we effectively use all types of electrical equipment without being able to tell their histories or to explain how they work .
business people for years have made good use of typewriters and adding machines , yet few have ever known how to repair them .
why , then , attempt to teach computers by teaching how or why they work ?
rather , we first must concentrate on teaching the effective use of the computer as the tool is .
" knowing how to use a computer is what ’ s going to be important , we don ’ t talk about " automobile literacy . "
we just get in our cars and drive them . "
editor :
while a new school term is about to begin , perhaps we should reconsider the matter of examinations .
in july , two writers ( letters to the editor ) praised the cancellation of exams because they believe " tests don ’ t tell the whole story . "
as a teacher who has worked in four countries , i have had the experience that a student who earns good marks is generally a good student , and that a student ’ s final mark in a subject is usually a grade average of the year ’ s work .
of course there are exceptions , but they do not have the frequency that would give an unfair picture of a student ’ s ability .
the simple fact is that proper class work , diligent exam studies and good marks are almost certain indicators of a student ’ s future performance .
the opposite , almost certainly , incompetence .
there is no acceptable substitute for competition and examination of quality .
how can teachers and future officials determine what a student has learned and remembered ?
should we simply take the student word for it ?
any institution that " liberates " students from fair and formal exams is misguided , if not ignorant .
and surely the " graduates " of such institutions will lack trustworthiness , not to mention being rejected by foreign universities for graduate or other studies .
when all is said and done , i sense that a fear of failure and a fear of unpleasant comparison with others is at the bottom of most ban-exams talk .
excellence and quality fear nothing .
on the contrary , they seek competition and desire the satisfaction of being the best .
time was — and not so many years ago , either — when the average citizen took a pretty dim view of banks and banking .
that this was so , it should be said , was to no small extent the fault of banks and bankers themselves .
banks used to be — and a few still are — forbidding structures .
behind the little barred windows were , more often than not , elderly gentlemen whose expression of friendliness reflected the size of the customer ’ s account , and nothing less than a few hundred thousand in the bank could have inspired the suggestion of a smile .
and yet the average bank for many year was , to the average citizen , a fearful , if necessary , instrument for dealing with business — usually big business .
but somewhere in the past quarter century , banks began to grow human , even pleasant , and started to attract the little man .
it is possible that this movement began in medium-sized towns , or in small towns where people know each other by their first names , and spread to big towns .
at any rate , the results have been remarkable .
the movement to " humanize " hanks , of course , received a big push during the war , when more and more women were employed to do work previously performed by men .
also more and more " little " people found themselves in need of personal loans , as taxes became heavier and as the practice of installment buying broke down the previously long — held concept that there was something almost morally wrong about being in debt .
all sorts of people began to discover that the intelligent use of credit could be extremely helpful .
last summer , transportation secretary elizabeth dole announced a new rule : unless states representing two-thirds of the country ’ s population pass compulsory seat-belt-use laws by april 1989 , all new vehicles will have to be fitted with air bags or automatic seat belts .
the rule wouldn ’ t have been necessary but for one simple fact .
even though seat belts could prevent nearly half of the deaths in fatal car accidents , 85 percent of the population simply won ’ t wear them .
why not ?
behavioral engineers have found that there are all sorts of reasons — usually unstated .
these are some of the most popular .
it ’ s safer to be thrown from a car man trapped .
according to e . scott geller , that ’ s a faulty argument .
" in fact " , he says , " being thrown from a car is twenty-five times more dangerous than being trapped " .
it won ’ t happen to me ; i ’ m a good driver .
but what about the other person who may be a terrible driver ?
the data show that the average incidence for all accidents in one per driver every 10 years .
my car will end up underwater or on fire , and i won ’ t be able to get out .
according to the national highway traffic safety administration ( nhtsa ) , only 0.5 percent of all injury-producing accidents occur under these conditions .
" if you ’ re wearing a belt , you ’ ve got a better chance of being conscious and not having your legs broken — distinct advantages in getting out of a dangerous situation " .
i ’ m only going a few blocks .
yet 80 percent of accidents happen at speeds or less that 25 miles per hour , 75 percent happen within 25 miles of home .
for well over 2000 years the world ’ s great religions have taught the virtues of a trusting heart .
now there is another reason to merit the wisdom of the ages : scientific evidence indicates that those with trusting hearts will live longer , healthier lives .
as a result of the work published in the 1970s by two pioneering heart specialists , meyer friedman and ray h . rosenman , nearly every american is aware that blood type .
a people are impatient , and easily moved to hostility and anger .
many have come to believe that type as are at a much higher risk of suffering heart attack or dying of heart disease than others .
the driving force behind hostility is a cynical mistrust of others .
if we expect others to mistreat us , we are seldom disappointed .
this generates anger and leads us to respond with hostility .
the most characteristic attitude of a cynic is being suspicious of the motives of people he doesn ’ t know .
imagine you are waiting for an elevator and it stops two floors above for longer than usual .
how inconsiderate you think .
in a few seconds , you have drawn hostile conclusions about unseen people and their motives .
meanwhile , your cynical mistrust is leading to noticeable physical consequences .
your voice rises .
the rate and depth of your breathing increases .
your heart is beating faster and harder , and the muscles of your arms and legs become tight .
you feel " charged up " , ready for action .
if you frequently experience these feelings , you may be at increased risk of developing serious health problems .
anger can add to the risk of heart and other diseases .
" time is a problem for kids , " states a news report for a new swiss watch .
children in some countries " learn time slowly " because " they don ’ t wear watches " and " parents don ’ t really know how to teach them time " .
the kids grow up with this handicap and become adults — and then can ’ t get to work on time .
is there an answer to this problem ?
of course — it ’ s the flik flak , made by a famous swiss watch company .
the flik flak is being marketed as something teaching watch for children aged 4 to 10 .
the watch itself does not teach kids how to tell time , of course it merely " captures their imagination " by presenting the " hour " hand as a beautiful red girl named flak and the " minute " hand as a tall blue boy named flik .
flik points to corresponding " blue " minutes on the dial , while flak points to red hour numbers .
the characters and the colors combined with parental help , are supposed to teach young children how to tell time .
the watch comes equipped with a standard battery and a nylon band .
peter lipkin , the united states sales manager for the flik flak , calls it kidproof : if it gets dirty you can throw the whole watch in the washing machine . "
the product is being sold in select department stores in europe , asia and the united states for a suggested price of $ 25 .
parents who buy the watch may discover that it is one thing for kids to tell time ; it ’ s quite another for them to be on time .
looking back on my childhood , i am convinced that naturalists are born and not made .
although we were all brought up in the same way , my brothers and sisters soon abandoned their pressed flowers and insects .
unlike them , i had no ear for music and languages .
i was not an early reader and i could not do mental arithmetic .
before world i we spent our summer holidays in hungary .
i have only the dim memory of the house we lived in , of my room and my toys .
nor do i recall clearly the large family of grandparents , aunts , uncles and cousins who gathered next door .
but i do have a crystal-clear memory of the dogs , the farm animals , the local birds and , above all the insects .
i am a naturalist , not a scientist .
i have a strong love of the natural world , and my enthusiasm has led me into varied investigations .
i love discussing my favorite topics and enjoy burning the midnight oil while reading about other people ’ s observations and discoveries .
then something happens that brings these observations together in my conscious mind .
suddenly you fancy you see the answer to the riddle , because it all seems to fit together .
this has resulted in my publishing 300 papers and books , which some might honour with the title of scientific research .
but curiosity , a keen eye , a good memory and enjoyment of the animal and plant world do not make a scientist : one of the outstanding and essential qualities require is self-discipline , quality i lack .
a scientist requires not only self-discipline but all training , determination and a goal .
a scientist , up to a point , can be made .
a naturalist is born .
if you can combine the two , you get the best of both worlds .
sporting activities are essentially modified forms of hunting behaviour .
viewed biologically , the modern footballer is in reality a member of a hunting group .
his killing weapon has turned into a harmless football and his prey into a goalmouth .
if his aim is accurate and he scores a goal , he enjoys the hunter ’ s triumph of killing his prey .
to understand how this transformation has taken place we must briefly look back at our forefathers .
they spent over a million years evolving as cooperative hunters .
their very survival depended on success in the hunting-field .
under this pressure their whole way of life , even their bodies , became greatly changed .
they became chasers , runners , jumpers , aimers , throwers and prey-killers .
they cooperated as skillful male-group attackers .
then about ten thousand years ago , after this immensely long period of hunting their food , they became farmers .
their improved intelligence , so vital to their old hunting life , was put to a new use — that of controlling and domesticating their prey .
the hunt became suddenly out of date .
the food was there on the farms , awaiting their needs .
the risks and uncertainties of the hunt were no longer essential for survival .
the skills and thirst for hunting remained , however , and demanded new outlets .
hunting for sport replaced hunting for necessity .
this new activity involved all the original hunting sequencer but the aim of the operation was no longer to avoid starvation .
instead the sportsmen set off to test their skill against prey that were no longer essential to their survival , to be sure , the kill may have been eaten , but there were other , much simpler ways of obtaining a meaty meal .
the world is known to us through many senses , not just hearing , smell , vision , and at close range , touch and taste .
our skins let us know whether the air is moist or dry , whether surfaces are wet without being sticky or slippery .
from the uniformity of slight pressure , we can be aware how deeply a finger is thrust into water at body temperature , even if the finger is enclosed in a rubber glove that keeps the skin completely dry .
many other animals , with highly sensitive skins , appear to be able to learn still more about their environment .
often they do so without employing any of the five senses .
by observing the capabilities of other members of the animal kingdom , we come to realise that a human being has far more possibilities than are utilised .
we neglect ever so many of our senses in concentrating on the five major ones .
at the same time , a comparison between animals and man draws attention to the limitations of each sense .
the part of the spectrum seen by colour-conscious man as red is non-existent for honey-bees .
but a bee can see far more in flowers than we , because the ultra-violet to which our eyes are blind is a stimulating part of the insect ’ s spectrum , and , for honey-bees at least , constitutes a separate colour .
america is a country on the move .
in unheard-of numbers , people of all ages are exercising their way to better health .
according to the latest figures , 59 percent of american adults exercise regularly-up 12 percent from just two years ago and more than double the figure of 25 years ago .
even non-exercisers believe they would be more attractive and confident if they were more active .
it is hard not to get the message .
the virtues of physical fitness are shown on magazine covers , postage stamps , and television ads for everything from beauty soaps to travel books .
exercise as a part of daily life did not catch on until the late 1960s when research by military doctors began to show the health benefits of doing regular physical exercises .
growing publicity for races held in american cities helped fuel a strong interest in the ancient sport of running .
although running has leveled off in recent years as americans have discovered equally rewarding-and sometimes safer-forms of exercise , such as walking and swimming , running , remaining the most popular form of exercise .
as the popularity of exercise continues to mount , so does scientific evidence of its health benefits .
the key to fitness is exercising the major muscle groups vigorously enough to approximately double the heart rate and keep it doubled for 20 to 30 minutes at a time .
doing such physical exercises three times or more a week will produce considerable improvements in physical health in about three months .
with fifteen years britain and other nations should be well on with the building of huge industrial complexes for the recycling of waste .
the word rubbish could lose its meaning because everything which goes into the dumps would be made into something useful .
even the most dangerous and unpleasant wastes would provide energy if nothing else .
the latest project is to take a city of around half a million inhabitants and discover exactly what raw materials go into it and what go out .
the aim is to find out how much of these raw materials could be provided if a plant for recycling waste were built just outside the city .
this plant would recycle not only metal such as steel , lead and copper , but also paper and rubber as well .
another new project is being set up to discover the best ways of sorting and separating the rubbish .
when this project is complete , the rubbish will be processed like this : first , it will pass through sharp metal bas which will tear open the plastic bags in which rubbish is usually packed ; then it will pass through a powerful fan to separate the lightest elements from the heavy solids ; after that grounders and rollers will break up everything that can be broken .
finally , the rubbish will pass under magnets , which will remove the bits of iron and steel ; the rubber and plastic will then be sorted out in the final stage .
the first full-scale giant recycling plants are perhaps fifteen years away .
indeed , with the growing cost of transporting rubbish to more distant dumps , some big cities will be forced to build their own recycling plants before long .
by 1970 , according to a world wildlife fund report , only about 4,500 tigers survived throughout the world-half of them in india .
mr . foresters , who followed and counted tiger footprints , estimated that in may 1972 only about 1,800 tigers existed in india .
project tiger supported by w . w . f . was immediately launched .
nine tiger reserves were created , with armed guards protecting them .
the project provided opportunities for researchers from india and abroad to study tigers in the reserves and gather previously unavailable information about their habits .
studies show that a male tiger may control a hunting territory of between 10 and 20 sq.kms , depending on its age , size and strength .
the territory of male includes the smaller territories of three or four tigresses .
a tiger marks the boundaries of its territories by spraying urine and other bodily liquids on bushes .
but it tries to avoid territorial fights , being guided by the distinctive body smell of other tigers .
tigers fight to death only when a tigress is defending her young , or when a tiger is guarding a tigress from the attentions of other males .
the popular image of the tiger is that of a merciless and unconquerable hunter .
but studies show that it catches only one of 20 victims it tries to attack .
fears have recently developed that project tiger has been too successful .
it has enabled the tiger population to double ( by mid - 80s ) , but india ’ s human population has also grown out of control .
currently it is 750 million and likely to be 900 million by the end of the century .
land problem is becoming serious and many rural people feel bitter about the fact that some rich forests are reserved for tigers .
a growing number of attacks by tigers on man has added to the hostility .
in only two decades asian americans have become the fastest-growing u . s . minority .
as their children began moving up through the nation ’ s schools , it became clear that a new class of academic achievers was emerging .
their achievements are reflected in the nation ’ s best universities , where mathematics , science and engineering departments have taken on a decidedly asian character .
this special liking for mathematics and science is partly explained by the fact that asian-american students who began their educations abroad arrived in the u . s . with a solid grounding in mathematics but little or no knowledge of english .
they are also influenced by the promise of a good job after college .
asians feel there will be less unfair treatment in areas like mathematics and science because they will be judged more objectively .
and the return on the investment in education is more immediate in something like engineering than with an arts degree .
most asian-american students owe their success to the influence of parents who are determined that their children take full advantage of what the american educational system has to offer .
an effective measure of parental attention is homework .
asian parents spend more time with their children than american parents do , and it helps .
many researchers also believe there is something in asian culture that breeds success , such ideals that stress family values and emphasize education .
both explanations for academic success worry asian americans because of fears that they feed a typical racial image .
many can remember when chinese , japanese and filipino immigrants were the victims of social isolation .
indeed , it was not until 1952 that laws were laid down giving all asian immigrants the right to citizenship .
like fine food , good writing is something we approach with pleasure and enjoy from the first taste to the last .
and good writers , good cooks , do not suddenly appear full-blown .
quite the contrary , just as the cook has to undergo an intensive training , mastering the skills of his trade , the writer must sit at his desk and devote long hours to achieving a style in his writing , whatever its purpose-schoolwork , matters of business , or purely social communication .
you may be sure that the more painstaking the effort , the more effective the writing , and the more rewarding .
there are still some remote places in the world where you might find a public scribe to do your business or social writing for you , for a fee .
there are a few managers who are lucky enough to have the service of that rate kind of secretary who can take care of all sorts of letter writing with no more than a quick note to work from .
but for most of us , if there is any writing to be done , we have to do it ourselves .
we have to write school papers , business papers or home papers .
we are constantly called on to put words to paper .
it would be difficult to count the number of such words , messages , letters , and reports put into the mails or delivered by hand , but the daily figure must be enormous .
what is more , everyone who writes expects , or at least hopes .
we want whatever we write to be read , from first word to last , not just thrown into some " letters-to-be-read " file or into a wastepaper basket .
this is the reason we bend our efforts toward learning and practicing the skill of interesting , effective writing .
nursing at beth israel hospital produces the best patient care possible .
if we are to solve the nursing shortage , hospital administration and doctors everywhere would do well to follow beth israel ’ s example .
at beth israel each patient is assigned to a primary nurse who visits at length with the patient and constructs a full-scale health account that covers everything from his medical history to his emotional state .
then she writes a care plan centered on the patient ’ s illness but which also includes everything else that is necessary .
the primary nurse stays with the patient through his hospitalization , keeping track with his progress and seeking further advice from his doctor .
if a patient at beth israel is not responding to treatment , it is not uncommon for his nurse to propose another approach to his doctor .
what the doctor at beth israel has in the primary nurse is a true colleague .
nursing at beth israel also involves a decentralized nursing administration ; every floor , every unit is a self-contained organization .
there are nurse-managers instead of head nurses ; in addition to their medical duties they do all their own hiring and dismissing , employee advising , and they make salary recommendations .
each unit ’ s nurses decide among themselves who will work what shifts and when .
beth israel ’ s nurse-in-chief ranks as an equal with other vice presidents of the hospital .
she also is a member of the medical executive committee , which is most hospitals includes only doctors .
for some time past it has been widely accepted that babies-and other creatures-learn to do things because certain acts lead to " rewards " ; and there is no reason to doubt that this is true .
but it used also to be widely believed that effective reward , at least in the early stages , had to be directly related to such basic physiological " drives " as thirst or hunger .
in other words , a baby would learn if he got food or drink of some sort of physical comfort , not otherwise .
it is now clear that this is not so .
babies will learn to behave in ways that produce results in the world with no reward except the successful outcome .
papousek began his studies by using milk in the normal way to " reward " the babies and so teach them to carry out some simple movements , such as turning the head to one side or the other .
then he noticed that a baby who had had enough to drink would refuse the milk but would still go on making the learned response with clear signs of pleasure .
so he began to study the children ’ s responses in situations where on milk was provided .
he quickly found that children as young as four months would learn to turn their heads to right or left if the movement " switched on " .
a display of lights-and indeed that they were capable of learning quite complex turns to bring about this result , for instance , two left or two right , or even to make as many three turns to one side .
papousek ’ s light display was placed directly in front of the babies and he made the interesting observation that sometimes they would not turn back to watch the lights closely although they would " smile and bubble " when the display came on .
papousek concluded that it was not primarily the sight of the lights which pleased them , it was the success they were achieving in solving the problem , in mastering the skill , and that there exists a fundamental human urge to make sense of the world and bring it under intentional control .
when a consumer finds that an item she or he bought is faulty or in some way does not live up to the manufacturer ’ s claim for it , the first step is to present the warranty , or any other records which might help , at the store of purchase .
in most cases , this action will produce results .
however , if it does not , there are various means the consumer may use to gain satisfaction .
a simple and common method used by many consumers is to complain directly to the store manager .
in general , the " higher up " the consumer takes his or her complaint , the faster he or she can expect it to be settled .
in such a case , it is usually settled in the consumer ’ s favor , assuming he or she has a just claim .
consumers should complain in person whenever possible , but if they cannot get to the place of purchase , it is acceptable to phone or write the complaint in a letter .
complaining is usually most effective when it is done politely but firmly , and especially when the consumer can demonstrate what is wrong with the item in questions .
if this cannot be done , the consumer will succeed best by presenting specific information as to what is wrong , rather than by making general statements .
for example , " the left speaker does not work at all and the sound coming out of the right one is unclear " is better than " this stereo does not work . "
the store manager may advise the consumer to write to the manufacturer .
if so , the consumer should do this , stating the complaint as politely and as firmly as possible .
but if a polite complaint does not achieve the desired result , the consumer can go a step further .
she or he can threaten to take the seller to court or report the seller to a private or public organization responsible for protecting consumers ’ rights .
if women are mercilessly exploited year after year , they have only themselves to blame .
because they tremble at the thought of being seem in public in clothes that are out of fashion , they are always taken advantage of by the designers and the big stores .
clothes which have been worn only a few times have to be put aside because of the change of fashion .
when you come to think of it , only a woman is capable of standing in front of a wardrobe packed full of clothes and announcing sadly that she has nothing to wear .
changing fashions are nothing more than the intentional creation of waste .
many women spend vast sums of money each year to replace clothes that have hardly been worn .
women who cannot afford to throw away clothing in this way , waste hours of their time altering the dresses they have .
skirts are lengthened or shortened ; neck-lines are lowered or raised , and so on .
no one can claim that the fashion industry contributes anything really important to society .
fashion designers are rarely concerned with vital things like warmth , comfort and durability .
they are only interested in outward appearance and they take advantage of the fact that women will put up with any amount of discomfort , as long as they look right .
there can hardly be a man who hasn ’ t at some time in his life smiled at the sight of a woman shaking in a thin dress on a winter day , or delicately picking her way through deep snow in high-heeled shoes .
when comparing men and men and women in the matter of fashion , the conclusions to be drawn are obvious .
do the constantly changing fashions of women ’ s clothes , one wonders , reflect basic qualities of inconstancy and instability ?
men are too clever to let themselves be cheated by fashion designers .
do their unchanging styles of dress reflect basic qualities of stability and reliability ?
that is for you to decide .
suppose we built a robot to explore the planet mars .
we provide the robot with seeing detectors to keep it away from danger .
it is powered entirely by the sun .
should we program the robot to be equally active at all times ?
no .
the robot would be using up energy at a time when it was not receiving any .
so we would probably program it to cease its activity at night and to wake up at dawn the next morning .
according to the evolutionary theory of sleep , evolution equipped us with a regular pattern of sleeping and waking for the same reason .
the theory does not deny that sleep provides some important restorative functions .
it merely says that evolution has programmed us to perform those functions at a time when activity would be inefficient and possibly dangerous .
however , sleep protects us only from the sort of trouble we might walk into ; it does not protect us from trouble that comes looking for us .
so we sleep well when we are in familiar , safe place , but we sleep lightly , if at all , when we fear that bears will nose into the tent .
the evolutionary theory accounts well for differences in sleep among creatures .
why do cats , for instance , sleep so much , while horses sleep so little ?
surely cats do not need five times as much repair and restoration as horses do .
but cats can afford to have long periods of inactivity because they spend little time eating and are unlikely to be attacked while they sleep .
horses must spend almost all their waking hours eating , because what they eat is very low in energy value .
moreover , they cannot afford to sleep too long or too deeply , because their survival depends on their ability to run away from attackers .
" congratulations , mr . jones , it ’ s a girl . "
fatherhood is going to have a different meaning and bring forth a different response from every man who hears these words .
some feel pride when they receive the news , while others worry , wondering whether they will be good father .
although there are some men who like children and may have had considerable experience with them , others do not particularly care for children and spend little time with them .
many fathers and mothers have been planning and looking forward to children for some time .
for other couples , pregnancy was an accident that both husband and wife have accepted willingly or unwillingly .
whatever the reaction to the birth of a child , it is obvious that the shift from the role of husband to that of father is a difficult task .
yet , unfortunately , few attempts have been made to educate fathers in this resocialization process .
although numerous books have been written about american mothers , only recently has literature focused on the role of a father .
it is argued by some writers that the transition to the father ’ s role , although difficult , is not nearly as great as the transition the wife must make to the mother ’ s role .
the mother ’ s role seems to require a complete transformation in daily routine and highly innovative adaptation , on the other hand , the father ’ s role is less demanding and immediate .
however , even though we mentioned the fact that growing numbers of women are working outside the home , the father is still thought by many as the breadwinner in the household .
reading is thought to be a kind of conversation between the reader and the text .
the reader puts questions , as it were , to the text and gets answers .
in the light of these he puts further questions , and so on .
for most of the time this " conversation " goes on below the level of consciousness .
at times , however , we become aware of it .
this is usually when we are running into difficulties , when mismatch is occurring between expectations and meaning .
when successful matching is being experienced , our questioning of the text continues at the unconscious level .
different people converse with the text differently .
some stay very close to the words on the page ; others take off imaginatively from the words , interpreting , criticizing , analyzing and examining .
the former represents a kind of comprehension which is written in the text .
the latter represents higher levels of comprehension .
the balance between these is important , especially for advanced readers .
there is another conversation which from our point of view is equally important , and that is to do not with what is read but with how it is read .
we call this a " process " conversation as opposed to a " content " conversation .
it is concerned not with meaning but with the strategies we employ in reading .
if we are an advanced reader our ability to hold a process conversation with a text is usually pretty well developed .
not so our ability to hold a content conversation .
it is precisely this kind of conversation that is of importance when we are seeking to develop our reading to meet the new demands being placed upon us by studying at a higher level .
although april did not bring us the rains we all hoped for , and although the central valley doesn ’ t generally experience the atmospheric sound and lightning that can accompany those rains , it ’ s still important for parents to be able to answer the youthful questions about thunder and lightning .
the reason these two wonders of nature are so difficult for many adults to explain to children is that they are not very well understood by adults themselves .
for example , did you know that the lightning we see flashing down to the earth from a cloud is actually flashing up to a cloud from the earth ?
our eyes trick us into thinking we see a downward motion when it ’ s actually the other way around .
but then , if we believed only what we think we see , we ’ d still insist that the sun rises in the morning and sets at night .
most lightning flashes take place inside a cloud , and only a relative few can be seen jumping between two cloud or between earth and a cloud .
but , with about 2,000 thunderstorms taking place above the earth every minute of the day and night , there ’ s enough activity to produce about 100 lightning strikes on earth every second .
parents can use thunder and lightning to help their children learn more about the world around them .
when children understand that the light of the lightning flashing reaches their eyes almost at the same moment , but the sound of the thunder takes about 5 seconds to travel just one mile , they can begin to time the interval between the flash and the crash to learn how close they were to the actual spark .
people tend to be more impressed by evidence that seems to confirm some relationship .
thus many are convinced their dreams are prophetic because a few have come true ; they fail to notice the many that have not .
consider also the belief that " the phone always rings when i ’ m in the shower . "
if it does ring while you are in the shower , the event will stand out and be remembered .
if it doesn ’ t ring , that nonevent probably won ’ t even register .
people want to see order , pattern and meaning in the world .
consider , for example , the common belief that things like personal misfortunes , plane crashes , and deaths " happen in threes . "
such beliefs stem from the tendency of people to allow the third event to define the time period .
if three plane crashes occur in a month , then the period of time that counts as their " happening together " is one month ; if three crashes occur in a year , the period of time is stretched .
flexible end points reinforce such beliefs .
we also tend to believe what we want to believe .
a majority of people think they are more intelligent , more fair-minded and more skilled behind the wheel of an automobile than the average person .
part of the reason we view ourselves so favorably is that we use criteria that work to our advantage .
as economist thomas schelling explains , " everybody ranks himself high in qualities he values : careful drivers give weight to care , skilled drivers give weight to skill , and those who are polite give weight to courtesy , " this way everyone ranks high on his own scale .
perhaps the most important mental habit we can learn is to be cautious in drawing conclusions .
the " evidence " of everyday life is sometimes misleading .
it has been thought and said that africans are born with musical talent .
because music is so important in the lives of many africans and because so much music is performed in africa , we are inclined to think that africans are musicians .
the impression is strengthened when we look at ourselves and find that we have become largely a society of musical spectators .
music is important to us , but most of us can be considered consumers rather than producers of music .
we have records , television , concerts , and radio to fulfill many of our musical needs .
in most situations where music is performed in our culture it is not difficult to distinguish the audience from the performers , but such is often not the case in africa .
alban ayipaga , a kasena semiprofessional musician from northern ghana , says that when his flute and drum ensemble is performing .
" anybody can take part " .
this is true , but kasena musicians recognize that not all people are equally capable of taking part in the music .
some can sing along with the drummers , but relatively few can drum and even fewer can play the flute along with the ensemble .
it is fairly common in africa for there to be an ensemble of expert musicians surrounded by others who join in by clapping , singing , or somehow adding to the totality of musical sound .
performances often take place in an open area ( that is , not on a stage ) and so the lines between the performing nucleus and the additional performers , active spectators , and passive spectators may be difficult to draw from our point of view .
most people would agree that , although our age exceeds all previous ages in knowledge , there has been no corresponding increase in wisdom .
but agreement ceases as soon as we attempt to define " wisdom " and consider means of promoting it .
there are several factors that contribute to wisdom .
of these i should put first a sense of proportion : the capacity to take account of all the important factors in a problem and to attach to each its due weight .
this has become more difficult than it used to be owing to the extent and complexity of the special knowledge required of various kinds of technicians .
suppose , for example , that you are engaged in research in scientific medicine .
the work is difficult and is likely to absorb the whole of your mind .
you have no time to consider the effect which your discoveries or inventions may have outside the field of medicine .
you succeed ( let us say ) as modern medicine has succeeded , in enormously lowering the infant death-rate , not only in europe and america , but also in asia and africa .
this has the entirely unintended result of making the food supply inadequate and lowing the standard of life in the parts of the world that have the greatest populations .
to take an even more dramatic example , which is in everybody ’ s mind at the present time ; you study the makeup of the atom from a disinterested desire for knowledge , and by chance place in the hands of a powerful mad man the means of destroying the human race .
therefore , with every increase of knowledge and skill , wisdom becomes more necessary , for every such increase augments our capacity for realizing our purposes , and therefore augments our capacity for evil , if our purpose are unwise .
for any given task in britain there are more men than are needed .
strong unions keep them there in fleet street , home of some london ’ s biggest dailies , it is understood that when two unions quarrel over three jobs , the argument is settled by giving each union two .
that means 33 per cent overmanning , 33 per cent less productivity than could be obtained .
a reporter who has visited plants throughout europe has an impression that the pace of work is much slower here .
nobody tries too hard .
tea breaks do matter and are frequent .
it is hard to measure intensity of work , but britons give a distinct impression of going at their tasks in a more leisurely way .
but is all this so terrible ?
it certainly does not improve the gross national product or output per worker .
those observant visitors , however , have noticed something else about britain .
it is a pleasant place .
street crowds in stockholm .
paris and new york move quickly and silently heads down , all in a hurry .
london crowds tend to walk at an easy pace ( except in the profitable , efficient city , the financial district ) .
every stranger is struck by the patient and orderly way in which britons queue for a bus : if the saleswoman is slow and out of stock she will likely say , " oh dear , what a pity ’ ; the rubbish collectors stop to chat and call the housewives " luv . "
crime rises here as in every city but there still remains a gentle tone and temper that is unmatched in berlin , milan or detroit .
in short , what is wrong with britain may also be what is right .
having reached a tolerable standard , britons appear to be choosing leisure over goods .
space is a dangerous place , not only because of meteors but also because of rays from the sun and other stars .
the atmosphere again acts as our protective blanket on earth .
light gets through , and this is essential for plants to make the food , which we eat .
heat , too , makes our environment endurable .
various kinds of rays come through the air from outer space , but enormous quantities of radiation from the sun are screened off .
as soon as men leave the atmosphere they are exposed to this radiation but their spacesuits or the walls of their spacecraft , if they are inside , do prevent a lot of radiation damage .
radiation is the greatest known danger to explorers in space .
the unit of radiation is called rem .
scientists have reason to think that a man can put up with far more radiation than 0.1 rem without being damaged ; the figure of 60 rems has been agreed on .
the trouble is that it is extremely difficult to be sure about radiation damage-a person may feel perfectly well , but the cells of his or her sex organs may be damaged , and this will not be discovered until the birth of deformed children or even grandchildren .
missions of the apollo flights have had to cross belts of high radiation and , during the outward and return journeys , the apollo crew accumulated a large amount of rems .
so far , no dangerous amounts of radiation have been reported , but the apollo missions have been quite short .
we simply do not know yet how men are going to get on when they spend weeks and months outside the protection of the atmosphere , working in a space laboratory .
drugs might help to decrease the damage done by radiation , but no really effective ones have been found so far .
taste is such a subjective matter that we don ’ t usually conduct preference tests for food .
the most you can say about anyone ’ s preference , is that it ’ s one person ’ s opinion .
but because the two big cola companies — coca-cola and pepsi cola are marketed so aggressively , we ’ ve wondered how big a role taste preference actually plays in brand loyalty .
we set up a taste test that challenged people who identified themselves as either coca-cola or pepsi fans : find your brand in a blind tasting .
we invited staff volunteers who had a strong liking for either coca-cola classic or pepsi , diet coke , or diet pepsi .
these were people who thought they ’ d have no trouble telling their brand from the other brand .
we eventually located 19 regular cola drinkers and 27 diet cola drinkers .
then we fed them four unidentified samples of cola one at a time , regular colas for the one group , diet versions for the other .
we asked them to tell us whether each sample was coke or pepsi ; then we analyzed the records statistically to compare the participants ’ choices with what mere guess-work could have accomplished .
getting all four samples right was a tough test , but not too tough , we thought , for people who believed they could recognize their brand .
in the end , only 7 out of 19 regular cola drinkers correctly identified their brand of choice in all four trials .
the diet-cola drinkers did a little worse-only 7 of 27 identified all four samples correctly .
while both groups did better than chance would predict , nearly half the participants in each group made the wrong choice two or more times .
two people go all four samples wrong .
overall , half the participants did about as well on the last round of tasting as on the first , so fatigue , or taste burnout , was not a factor .
our preference test results suggest that only a few pepsi participants and coke fans may really be able to tell their favorite brand by taste and price .
the concept of " environment " is certainly difficult and may even be misunderstood ; but we have no handy substitute .
it seems simple enough to distinguish between the organism and the surrounding environment and to separate forces acting on an organism into those that are internal and biological and those that are external and environmental .
but in actual practice this system breaks down in many ways , because the organism and the environment are constantly interacting so that the environment is modified by the organism and vice versa .
in the case of man , the difficulties with the environmental concept are even more complicated because we have to deal with man as an animal and with man as a bearer of culture .
if we look at man as an animal and try to analyze the environmental forces that are acting on the organism , we find that we have to deal with things like climate , soil , plants and such-like factors common to all biological situations ; but we also find , always , very important environmental influences that we can only class as " cultural " , which modify the physical and biological factors .
but man , as we know him , is always a bearer of culture ; and if we study human culture , we find that it , in turn , is modified by the environmental factors of climate and geography .
we thus easily get into great difficulties from the necessity of viewing culture , at one moment , as a part of the man and , at another moment , as a part of the environment .
the speaker , a teacher from a community college , addressed a sympathetic audience .
heads nodded in agreement when he said , " high school english teachers are not doing their jobs . "
he described the inadequacies of his students , all high school graduates who can use language only at a grade 9 level .
i was unable to determine from his answers to my questions how this grade 9 level had been established .
my topic is not standards nor its decline .
what the speaker was really saying is that eh is no longer young ; he has been teaching for sixteen years , and is able to think and speak like a mature adult .
my point is that the frequent complaint of one generation about the one immediately following it is inevitable .
it is also human nature to look for the reasons for our dissatisfaction .
before english became a school subject in the late nineteenth century , it was difficult to find the target of the blame for language deficiencies .
but since then , english teachers have been under constant attack .
the complainers think they have hit upon an original idea .
as their own command of the language improves , they notice that young people do not have this same ability .
unaware that their own ability has developed through the years , they assume the new generation of young people must be hopeless in this respect .
to the eyes and ears of sensitive adults the language of the young always seems inadequate .
since this concern about the decline and fall of the english language is not perceived as a generational phenomenon but rather as something new and peculiar to today ’ s young people , it naturally follows that today ’ s english teachers cannot be doing their jobs .
otherwise , young people would not commit offenses against the language .
exchange a glance with someone , then look away .
do you realize that you have made a statement ?
hold the glance for a second longer , and you have made a different statement .
hold it for 3 seconds , and the meaning has changed again .
for every social situation , there is a permissible time that you can hold a person ’ s gaze without being intimate , rude , or aggressive .
if you are on an elevator , what gaze-time are you permitted ?
to answer this question , consider what you typically do .
you very likely give other passengers a quick glance to size them up and to assure them that you mean no threat .
since being close to another person signals the possibility of interaction .
you need to emit a signal telling others you want to be left alone .
so you cut off eye contact , what sociologist erving goffman ( 1963 ) calls " a dimming of the lights . "
you look down at the floor , at the indicator lights , anywhere but into another passenger ’ s eyes .
should you break the rule against staring at a stranger on an elevator , you will make the other person exceedingly uncomfortable , and you are likely to feel a bit strange yourself .
if you hold eye contact for more than 3 seconds , what are you telling another person ?
much depends on the person and the situation .
for instance , a man and a woman communicate interest in this manner .
they typically gaze at each other for about 3 seconds at a time , then drop their eyes down for 3 seconds , before letting their eyes meet again .
but if one man gives another man a 3 - second-plus stare , he signals , " i know you " , " i am interested in you , " or " you look peculiar and i am curious about you . "
this type of stare often produces hostile feelings .
the picnics , speeches , and parades of today ’ s labor day were all part of the first celebration , held in new york city in 1882 .
its promoter was an irish-american labor leader named peter j . mcguire .
a carpenter by trade , mcguire had worked since the age of eleven , and in 1882 was president of the united brotherhood of carpenters and joiners ( ubcj ) .
approaching the city ’ s central labor union that summer , he proposed a holiday that would applaud " the industrial spirit-the great vital force of every nation , " on september 5 his suggestion bore fruit , as an estimated 10,000 workers , many of them ignoring their bosses ’ warnings , left work to march from union square up fifth avenue to 42nd street .
the event gained national attention , and by 1893 thirty states had made labor day an annual holiday .
the quick adoption of the scheme may have indicated less about the state lawmakers ’ respect for working people than about a fear of risking their anger .
in the 1880s the united states was a land sharply divided between the immensely wealthy and the very poor .
henry george was accurate in describing the era as one of " progress and poverty . "
in a society in which factory , owners rode in private pullmans while ten-year-olds slaved in the mines , strong anti-capitalist feeling ran high .
demands for fundamental change were common throughout the labor press .
with socialists demanding an end to " wage slavery " and anarchists singing the praises of the virtues of dynamite , middle-of-the-roaders like samuel gompers and mcguire seemed attractively mild by comparison .
one can imagine practical capitalists seeing labor day as a bargain : a one-day party certainly cost them less than paying their workers decent wages .
in the old day , children were familiar with birth and death as part of life .
this is perhaps the first generation of american youngsters who have never been close by during the birth of a baby and have never experienced the death of a family member .
nowadays when people grow old , we often send them to nursing homes .
when they get sick , we transfer them to a hospital , where children are forbidden to visit terminally ill patients-even when those patients are their parents .
this deprives the dying patient of significant family members during the last few days of his life and it deprives the children of an experience of death , which is an important learning experience .
some of my colleagues and i once interviewed and followed approximately 500 terminally ill patients in order to find out what they could teach us and how we could be of more benefit , not just to them but to the members of their families as well .
we are most impressed by the fact that even those patients who were not told of their serious illness were quite aware of its potential outcome .
it is important for family members , and doctors and nurses to understand these patients ’ communications in order to truly understand their needs , fears , and fantasies .
most of our patients welcomed another human being with whom they could talk openly , honestly , and frankly about their trouble .
many of them shared with us their tremendous need to be informed , to be kept up-to-date on their medical condition and to be told when the end was near .
we found out that patients who had been dealt with openly and frankly were better able to cope with the approach of death and finally to reach a true stage of acceptance prior to death .
faces , like fingerprints , are unique .
did you ever wonder how it is possible for us to recognize people .
even a skilled writer probably could not describe all the features that make one face different from another .
yet a very young child-or even an animal , such as a pigeon-can learn to recognize faces , we all take this ability for granted .
we also tell people apart by how they behave .
when we talk about someone ’ s personality , we mean the ways in which he or she acts , speaks thinks and feels that make that individual different from others .
like the human face , human personality is very complex .
but describing someone ’ s personality in words is somewhat easier than describing his face .
if you were asked to describe what a " nice face " looked like , you probably would have a difficult time doing so .
but if you were asked to describe a " nice person " , you might begin to think about someone who was kind considerate , friendly , warm , and so forth .
there are many words to describe how a person thinks , feels and acts .
gordon allport , an american psychologist , found nearly 18,000 english words characterizing differences in people ’ s behavior .
and many of us use this information as a basis for describing , or typing , his personality .
bookworms , conservatives , military types-people are described with such terms .
people have always tried to " type " each other .
actors in early greek drama wore masks to show the audience whether they played the villain ’ s or the hero ’ s role .
in fact , the words " person " and " personality " come from the latin persona , meaning " mask " .
today , most television and movie actors do not wear masks .
but we can easily tell the " good guys " from the " bad guys " because the two types differ in appearance as well as inactions .
statuses are marvelous human inventions that enable us to get along with one another and to determine where we " fit " in society .
as we go about our everyday lives , we mentally attempt to place people in terms of their statuses .
for example , we must judge whether the person in the library is a reader or a librarian , whether the telephone caller is a friend or a salesman , whether the unfamiliar person on our property is thief or a meter reader , and so on .
the statuses we assume often vary with the people we encounter , and change throughout life .
most of us can , at very high speed , assume the statuses that various situations require .
much of social interaction consists of identifying and selecting among appropriate statuses and allowing other people to assume their statuses in relation to us .
this means that we fit our actions to those of other people based on a constant mental process of appraisal and interpretation .
although some of us find the task more difficult than others , most of us perform it rather effortlessly .
a status has been compared to ready-made clothes .
within certain limits , the buyer can choose style and fabric .
but an american is not free to choose the costume of a chinese peasant or that of a hindu prince .
we must choose from among the clothing presented by our society .
furthermore , our choice is limited to a size that will fit , as well as by our pocketbook .
having made a choice within these limits we can have certain alterations made , but apart from minor adjustments , we tend to be limited to what the stores have on their racks .
statuses too come ready made , and the range of choice among them is limited .
many a young person tells me he wants to be a writer .
i always encourage such people , but i also explain that there ’ s big difference between " being a writer " and writing .
in most cases these individuals are dreaming of wealth and fame , not the long hours alone at a typewriter .
" you ’ ve got to want to write , " i say to them , " not want to be a writer . "
the reality is that writing is a lonely , private and poor-paying affair .
for every writer kissed by fortune there are thousands more whose longing is never rewarded .
when i left a 20 - year career in the u . s . coast guard to become a freelance writer , i had no prospects at all .
what i did have was a friend who found me my room in a new york apartment building .
it didn ’ t even matter that it was cold and had no bathroom .
i immediately bought a used manual type writer and felt like a genuine writer .
after a year or so , however , i still hadn ’ t gotten a break and began to doubt myself .
it was so hard to sell a story that barely made enough to eat .
but i knew i wanted to write .
i had dreamed about it for years .
i wasn ’ t going to be one of those people who die wondering , what if ?
i would keep putting my dream to the test-even though it meant living with uncertainty and fear of failure .
this is the shadowland of hope , and anyone with a dream must learn to live there .
it is everyone agrees , a huge task that the child performs when he learns to speak , and the fact that he does so in so short a period of time challenges explanation .
language learning begins with listening .
individual children vary greatly in the amount of listening they do before they start speaking , and late starters are often long listeners .
most children will " obey " spoken instructions some time before they can speak , though the word obey is hardly accurate as a description of the eager and delighted cooperation usually shown by the child .
before they can speak , many children will also ask questions by gesture and by making questioning noises .
any attempt to trace the development from the noises babies make to their first spoken words leads to considerable difficulties .
it is agreed that they enjoy making noises , and that during the first few months one or two noises sort themselves out as particularly indicative of delight , distress , sociability , and so on .
but since these cannot be said to show the baby ’ s intention to communicate , they can hardly be regarded as early forms of language .
it is agreed , too , that from about three months they play with sounds for enjoyments , and that by six months they are able to add new sounds to their repertoire .
this self-imitation leads on to deliberate imitation of sounds made or words spoken to them by other people .
the problem then arises as to the point at which one can say that these imitations can be considered as speech .
psychologists take opposing views of how external rewards , from warm praise to cold cash , affect motivation and creativity .
behaviorists , who study the relation between actions and their consequences , argue that rewards can improve performance at work and school .
cognitive researchers , who study various aspects of mental life , maintain that rewards often destroy creativity by encouraging dependence on approval and gifts from others .
the latter view has gained many supporters , especially among educators .
but the careful use of small monetary rewards sparks creativity in grade-school children , suggesting that properly presented inducements indeed aid inventiveness , according to a study in the june journal of personality and social psychology .
" if kids know they ’ re working for a reward and can focus on a relatively challenging task , they show the most creativity , " says robert eisenberger of the university of delaware in newark .
" but it ’ s easy to kill creativity by giving rewards for poor performance or creating too much anticipation for rewards . "
a teacher who continually draws attention to rewards or who hands out high grades for ordinary achievement ends up with uninspired students , eisenberger holds .
as an example of the latter point , he notes growing efforts at major universities to tighten grading standards and restore failing grades .
in earlier grades , the use of so-called token economies , in which students handle challenging problems and receive performance-based points toward valued rewards , shows promise in raising effort and creativity , the delaware psychologist claims .
in britain , the old road traffic act restricted speeds to 2 m . p . h .
( miles per hour ) in towns and 4 m . p . h .
in the country .
later parliament increased the speed limit to 14 m . p . h .
but by 1903 the development of the car industry had made it necessary to raise the limit to 20 m . p . h .
by 1930 , however , the law was so widely ignored that speeding restrictions were done away with altogether .
for five years motorists were free to drive at whatever speeds they likes .
then in 1935 the road traffic act imposed a 30 m . p . h .
speed limit in built-up areas , along with the introduction of driving tests and pedestrian crossing .
speeding is now the most common motoring offence in britain .
offences for speeding fall into three classes : exceeding the limit on a restricted road , exceeding on any road the limit for the vehicle you are driving , and exceeding the 70 m . p . h .
limit on any road .
a restricted road is one where the street lamps are 200 yards apart , or more .
the main controversy surrounding speeding laws is the extent of their safety value .
the ministry of transport maintains that speed limits reduce accidents .
it claims that when the 30 m . p . h .
limit was introduced in 1935 there was a fall of 15 percent in fatal accidents .
likewise , when the 40 m . p . h .
speed limit was imposed on a number of roads in london in the late fifties , there was a 28 percent reduction in serious accidents .
there were also fewer casualties in the year after the 70 m . p . h .
motorway limit was imposed in 1966 .
in america , however , it is thought that the reduced accident figures are due rather to the increase in traffic density .
this is why it has even been suggested that the present speed limits should be done away with completely , or that a guide should be given to inexperienced drivers and the speed limits made advisory , as is done in parts of the usa .
the fridge is considered a necessity .
it has been so since the 1960s when packaged food first appeared with the label : " store in the refrigerator . "
in my fridgeless fifties childhood , i was fed well and healthy .
the milkman came daily , the grocer , the butcher , the baker , and the ice-cream man delivered two or three times a week .
the sunday meat would last until wednesday and surplus bread and milk became all kinds of cakes .
nothing was wasted , and we were never troubled by rotten food .
thirty years on , food deliveries have ceased , fresh vegetables are almost unobtainable in the country .
the invention of the fridge contributed comparatively little to the art of food preservation .
a vast way of well-tried techniques already existed-natural cooling , drying , smoking , salting , sugaring , bottling ...
what refrigeration did promote was marketing — marketing hardware and electricity , marketing soft drinks , marketing dead bodies of animals around the globe in search of a good price .
consequently , most of the world ’ s fridges are to be found , not in the tropics where they might prove useful , but in the wealthy countries with mild temperatures where they are climatically almost unnecessary .
every winter , millions of fridges hum away continuously , and at vast expense , busily maintaining an artificially-cooled space inside an artificially-heated house-while outside , nature provides the desired temperature free of charge .
the fridge ’ s effect upon the environment has been evident , while its contribution to human happiness has been insignificant .
if you don ’ t believe me , try it yourself , invest in a food cabinet and turn off your fridge next winter .
you may miss the hamburgers , but at least you ’ ll get rid of that terrible hum .
the human brain contains 10 thousand million cells and each of these may have a thousand connections .
such enormous numbers used to discourage us and cause us to dismiss the possibility of making a machine with human-like ability , but now that we have grown used to moving forward at such a pace we can be less sure .
quite soon , in only 10 or 20 years perhaps , we will be able to assemble a machine as complex as the human brain , and if we can we will .
it may then take us a long time to render it intelligent by loading in the right software or by altering the architecture but that too will happen .
i think it certain that in decades , not centuries , machines of silicon will arise first to rival and then exceed their human ancestors .
once they exceed us they will be capable of their own design .
in a real sense they will be able to reproduce themselves .
silicon will have ended carbon ’ s long control .
and we will no longer be able to claim ourselves to be the finest intelligence in the known universe .
as the intelligence of robots increases to match that of humans and as their cost declines through economies of scale we may use them to expand our frontiers , first on earth through their ability to withstand environments , harmful to ourselves .
thus , deserts may bloom and the ocean beds be mined .
further ahead , by a combination of the great wealth this new age will bring and the technology it will provide , the construction of a vast , man-created world in space , home to thousands or millions of people , will be within our power .
after the violent earthquake that shook los angeles in 1994 , earthquake scientists had good news to report : the damage and death toll could have been much worse .
more than 60 people died in this earthquake .
by comparison , as earthquake of similar intensity that shook america in 1988 claimed 25,000 victims .
injuries and deaths were relatively less in los angeles because the quake occurred at 4:31 a . m . on a holiday , when traffic was light on the city ’ s highways .
in addition , changes made to the construction codes in los angeles during the last 20 years have strengthened the city ’ s buildings and highways , making them more resistant to quakes .
despite the good new , civil engineers aren ’ t resting on their successes .
pinned to their drawing boards are blueprints for improved quake-resistant buildings .
the new designs should offer even greater security to cities where earthquakes often take place .
in the past , making structures quake-resistant meant firm yet flexible materials , such as steel and wood , that bend without breaking .
later , people tried to lift a building off its foundation , and insert rubber and steel between the building and its foundation to reduce the impact of ground vibrations .
the most recent designs give buildings brains as well as concrete and steel supports .
called smart buildings , the structures respond like living organisms to an earthquake ’ s vibrations .
when the ground shakes and the building tips forward , the computer would force the building to shift in the opposite direction .
the new smart structures could be very expensive to build .
however , they would save many lives and would be less likely to be damaged during earthquakes .
even plants can run a fever , especially when they ’ re under attack by insects or disease .
but unlike humans , plants can have their temperature taken from 3,000 feet away-straight up .
a decade ago , adapting the infrared scanning technology developed for military purposes and other satellites , physicist stephen paley came up with a quick way to take the temperature of crops to determine which ones are under stress .
the goal was to let farmers precisely target pesticide spraying rather than rain poison on a whole field , which invariably includes plants that don ’ t have pest problems .
even better , paley ’ s remote scanning services company could detect crop problems before they became visible to the eye .
mounted on a plane flown at 3,000 feet at night , an infrared scanner measured the heat emitted by crops .
the data were transformed into a color-coded map showing where plants were running " fevers " .
farmers could then spot-spray , using 50 to 70 percent less pesticide than they otherwise would .
the bad news is that paley ’ s company closed down in 1984 , after only three years .
farmers resisted the new technology and long-term backers were hard to find .
but with the renewed concern about pesticides on produce , and refinements in infrared scanning , paley hopes to get back into operation .
agriculture experts have no doubt the technology works .
" this technique can be used on 75 percent of agricultural land in the united states , " says george oerther of texas a & m .
ray jackson , who recently retired from the department of agriculture , thinks remote infrared crop scanning could be adopted by the end of the decade .
but only if paley finds the financial backing which he failed to obtain 10 years ago .
in bringing up children , every parent watches eagerly the child ’ s acquisition of each new skill-the first spoken words , the first independent steps , or the beginning of reading and writing .
it is often tempting to hurry the child beyond his natural learning rate , but this can set up dangerous feelings of failure and states of worry in the child : this might happen at any stage .
a baby might be forced to use a toilet too early , a young child might be encouraged to learn to read before he knows the meaning of the words he reads .
on the other hand , though , if a child is left alone too much , or without any learning opportunities , he loses his natural enthusiasm for life and his desire to find out new things for himself .
patents vary greatly in their degree of strictness towards their children .
some may be especially strict in money matters .
others are sever over times of coming home at night or punctuality for meals .
in general , the controls imposed represent the needs of the parents and the values of the community as much as the child ’ s own happiness .
as regards the development of moral standards in the growing child , consistency is very important in parental teaching .
to forbid a thing one day and excuse it the next is no foundation for morality .
also , parents should realize that " example is better than precept " .
if they are not sincere and do not practise what they preach , their children may grow confused , and emotionally insecure when they grow old enough to think for themselves , and realize they have been to some extent fooled .
a sudden awareness of a marked difference between their parents ’ principles and their morals can be a dangerous disappointment .
a good modern newspaper is an extraordinary piece of reading .
it is remarkable first for what it contains : the range of news from local crime to international politics , from sport to business to fashion to science , and the range of comment and special features as well , from editorial page to feature articles and interviews to criticism of books , art , theatre and music .
a newspaper is even more remarkable for the way one reads it : never completely , never straight through , but always by jumping from here to there , in and not glancing at one piece , reading another article all the way through , reading just a few paragraphs of the next .
a good modern newspaper offers variety to attract many different readers , but far more than nay one reader is interested in .
what brings this variety together in one place is its topicality , its immediate relation to what is happening in your world and your locality now , but immediacy and the speed of production that goes with it mean also that much of what papers in a newspaper has no more than transient value .
for all these reasons , no two people really read the same paper : what each person does is to put together out of the pages of that day ’ s paper , his own selection and sequence , his own newspaper .
for all these reasons , reading newspapers efficiently , which means getting what you want from them without missing things you need but without wasting time , demands skill and self-awareness as you modify and apply the techniques of reading .
american society is not nap friendly .
in fact , says david dinges , a sleep specialist at the university of pennsylvania school of medicine .
" there ’ s even a prohibition against admitting we need sleep . "
nobody wants to be caught napping or found asleep at work .
to quote proverb : " some sleep five hours , nature requires seven , laziness nine and wickedness eleven . "
wrong .
the way not to fall asleep at work is to take naps when you need them .
" we have to totally change our attitude toward napping " , says dr . william dement of stanford university , the godfather of sleep research .
last year a national commission led by dement identified an " american sleep debt " which one member said was as important as the national debt , the commission was concerned about the dangers of sleepiness : people causing industrial accidents or falling asleep while driving .
this may be why we have a new sleep policy in the white house .
according to recent reports , president clinton is trying to take a half-hour snooze every afternoon .
about 60 percent of american adults nap when given the opportunity .
we seem to have " a midafternoon quiet phase " also called " a secondary sleep gate . "
sleeping 15 minutes to two hours in the early afternoon can reduce stress and make us refreshed .
clearly , we were born to nap .
we superstars of snooze don ’ t nap to replace lost shut-eye or to prepare for a night shift .
rather , we " snack " on sleep , whenever , wherever and at whatever time we feel like it .
i myself have napped in buses , cars , planes and on boats ; on floors and beds ; and in libraries , offices and museums .
violin prodigies , i learned , have come in distinct waves from distinct regions .
most of the great performers if the late 19th and early 20th centuries were born and brought up in russia and eastern europe .
i asked isaac stern , one of the world ’ s greatest violinists the reason for this phenomenon .
" it is very clear , " he told me .
" they were all jews and jews at the time were severely oppressed and ill-treated in that part of the world .
they were not allowed into the professional fields , but they were allowed to achieve excellence on a concert stage . "
as a result , every jewish parent ’ s dream was to have a child in the music school because it was a passport to the west .
another element in the emergence of prodigies , i found , is a society that values excellence in a certain field to nurture talent .
nowadays , the most nurturing societies seem to be in the far east .
" in japan , a most competitive society , with stronger discipline than ours , " says isaac stem , children are ready to test their limits every day in many fields , including music .
when western music came to japan after world war ii , that music not only became part of their daily lives , but it became a discipline as well .
the koreans and chinese as we know , are just as highly motivated as the japanese .
that ’ s a good thing , because even prodigies must work hard .
next to hard work , biological inheritance plays an important role in the making of a prodigy .
j . s . bach , for example , was the top of several generations of musicians , and four of his sons had significant careers in music .
psychologist george spilich and colleagues at washington college in chestertown , maryland , decided to find out whether , as many smokers say , smoking helps them to " think and concentrate .
spilich put young non-smokers , active smokers and smokers deprived of cigarettes through a series of tests .
in the first test , each subject sat before a computer screen and pressed a key as soon as he or she recognized a target letter among a grouping of 96 .
in this simple test , smokers , deprived smokers and non-smokers performed equally well .
the next test was more complex , requiring all to scan sequences of 20 identical letters and respond the instant one of the letters transformed into a different one .
non-smokers were faster , but under the stimulation of nicotine , active smokers were faster than deprived smokers .
in the third test of short-term memory , non-smokers made the fewest errors , but deprived smokers committed fewer errors than active smokers .
the fourth test required people to read a passage , then answer questions about it .
non-smokers remembered 19 percent more of the most important information than active smokers , and deprived smokers bested those who had smoked a cigarette just before testing .
active smokers tended not only to have poorer memories but also had trouble separating important information from insignificant details .
" as our tests became more complex , " sums up spilich , " non-smokers performed better than smokers by wider and wider margins " he predicts , " smokers might perform adequately at many jobs-until they got complicated .
a smoking airline pilot could fly adequately if no problems arose , but if something went wrong , smoking might damage his mental capacity . "
there is no denying that students should learn something about how computers work , just as we expect them at least to understand that the internal-combustion engine has something to do with burning fuel , expanding gases and pistons being driven .
for people should have some basic idea of how the things that they use do what they do .
further , students might be helped by a course that considers the computer ’ s impact on society .
but that is not what is meant by computer literacy .
for computer literacy is not a form of literacy ; it is a trade skill that should not be taught as a liberal art .
learning how to use a computer and learning how to program one are two distinct activities .
a case might be made that the competent citizens of tomorrow should free themselves from their fear of computers .
but this is quite different from saying that all ought to know how to program one .
leave that to people who have chosen programming as a career .
while programming can be lots of fun , and while our society needs some people who are experts at it , the same is true of auto repaid and violin-making .
learning how to use a computer is not that difficult , and it gets easier all the time as programs become more " user-friendly " .
let us assume that in the future everyone is going to have to know how to use a computer to be a competent citizen .
what does the phrase " learning to use a computer " mean ?
it sounds like " learning to drive a car " , that is , it sounds as if there is some set of definite skills that , once acquired , enable one to use a computer .
in fact , " learning to use a computer " is much more like " learning to play a game " , but learning the rules of one game may not help you play a second game , whose rules may not be the same .
there is no such a thing as teaching someone how to use a computer .
one can only teach people to use this or that program and generally that is easily accomplished .
the way people hold to the belief that a fun-filled , pain free life equals happiness actually reduces their chances of ever attaining real happiness , if fun and pleasure are equal to happiness then pain must be equal to unhappiness .
but in fact , the opposite is true : more often than not things that lead to happiness involve some pain .
as a result , many people avoid the very attempts that are the source of true happiness .
they fear the pain inevitably brought by such things as marriage , raising children , professional achievement , religious commitment , self-improvement .
ask a bachelor why he resists marriage even though he finds dating to be less and less satisfying .
if he is honest he will tell you that he is afraid of making a commitment .
for commitment is in fact quite painful .
the single life is filled with fun , adventure , excitement .
marriage has such moments , but they are not its most distinguishing features .
couples with infant children are lucky to get a whole night ’ s sleep or a three-day vacation .
i don ’ t know any parent who would choose the word fun to describe raising children .
but couples who decide not to have children never know the joys of watching a child grow up or of playing with a grandchild .
understanding and accepting that true happiness has nothing to do with fun is one of the most liberating realizations .
it liberates time : now we can devote more hours to activities that can genuinely increase our happiness .
it liberates money : buying that new car or those fancy clothes that will do nothing to increase our happiness now seems pointless .
and it liberates us from envy : we now understand that all those who are always having so much fun actually may not be happy at all .
it ’ s very interesting to note where the debate about diversity is taking place .
it is taking place primarily in political circles .
here at the college fund , we have a lot of contact with top corporate leaders ; none of them is talking about getting rid of those instruments that produce diversity .
in fact , they say that if their companies are to compete in the global village and in the global market place , diversity is an imperative .
they also say that the need for talented , skilled americans means we have to expand the pool means promoting policies that help provide skills to more minorities , more women and more immigrants .
corporate leaders know that if that doesn ’ t occur in our society , they will not have the engineers , the scientist , the lawyers , or the business managers they will need .
likewise , i don ’ t hear people in the academy saying .
" let ’ s go backward .
let ’ s go back to the good old days , when we had a meritocracy " ( which was never true-we never had a meritocracy , although we ’ ve come close to it in the last 30 years ) .
i recently visited a great little college in new york where the campus had doubled its minority population in the last six years .
i talked with an african american who has been a professor there for a long time , and she remembers that when she first joined the community , there were fewer than a handful of minorities on campus .
now , all of us feel the university is better because of the diversity .
so where we hear this debate is primarily in political circles and in the media-not in corporate board rooms or on college campuses .
the view over a valley of a tiny village with thatched roof cottages around a church ; a drive through a narrow village street lines with thatched cottages painted pink or white ; the sight in parts of england .
most people will agree that the thatched roof is an essential part of the attraction of the english countryside .
thatching is in fact the oldest of all the building crafts practiced in the british isles .
although thatch has always been used for cottage and farm buildings , it was once used for castles and churches , too .
thatching is a solitary craft , which often runs in families .
the craft of thatching as it is practiced toady has changed very little since the middle ages .
over 800 full-time thatchers are employed in england and wales today , maintaining and renewing the old roofs as well as thatching newer houses .
many property owners choose thatch not only for its beauty but because they know it will keep them cool in summer and warm in winter .
in fact , if we look at developing countries , over half the world lives under thatch , but they all do it in different ways .
people in developing countries are often reluctant to go back to traditional materials and would prefer modern buildings .
however , they may lack the money to allow them to import the necessary materials .
their temporary mud huts with thatched roofs of wild grasses often only last six months .
thatch which has been done the british way lasts from twenty to sixty years , and is an effective defiance against the heat .
president coolidge ’ s statement , " the business of america is business , " still points to an important truth today-that business institutions have more prestige in american society than any other kind of organization , including the government .
why do business institutions posses this great prestige ?
one reason is that americans view business as being more firmly based on the ideal of competition than other institutions in society .
since competition is seen as the major source of progress and prosperity by most americans , competitive business institutions are respected .
competition is not only good in itself , it is the means by which other basic american values such as individual freedom , equality of opportunity , and hard work are protected .
competition protects the freedom of the individual by ensuring that there is no monopoly of power .
in contrast to one , all-powerful government , many businesses compete against each other for profits .
theoretically , if one business tries to take unfair advantage of its customers , it will lose to competing business which treats its customers more fairly .
where many businesses compete for the customers ’ dollar , they cannot afford to treat them like inferiors or slaves .
a contrast is often made between business , which is competitive , and government , which si a monopoly .
because business is competitive , many americans believe that it is more supportive of freedom than government , even though government leaders are elected by the people and business leaders are not .
many americans believe , then , that competition is as important , or even more important , that democracy in preserving freedom .
competition in business is also believed to strengthen the ideal of equality of opportunity .
competition is seen as an open and fair race where success goes to the swiftest person regardless of his or her social class background .
competitive success is commonly seen as the american alternative to social rank based on family background .
business is therefore viewed as an expression of the idea of equality of opportunity rather than the aristocratic idea of inherited privilege .
the appeal of advertising to buying motives can have both negative and positive effects consumers may be convinced to buy a product of poor quality or high price because of an advertisement .
for example , some advertisers have appealed to people ’ s desire for better fuel economy for their cars by advertising automotive products that improve gasoline mileage .
some of the products work .
others are worthless and a waste of consumers ’ money .
sometimes advertising is intentionally misleading .
a few years ago a brand of bread was offer to dieters with the message that there were fewer calories ( ， ) in every slice .
it turned out that the bread was not dietetic , but just regular bread .
there were fewer calories because it was sliced very thin , but there were the same number of calories in every loaf .
on the positive side , emotional appeals may respond to a consumer ’ s real concerns .
consider fire insurance .
fire insurance may be sold by appealing to fear of loss .
but fear of loss is the real reason for fire insurance .
the security of knowing that property is protected by insurance makes the purchase of fire insurance a worthwhile investment for most people .
if consumers consider the quality of the insurance plans as well as the message in the ads , they will benefit from the advertising .
each consumer must evaluate her or his own situation .
are the benefits of the product important enough to justify buying it ?
advertising is intended to appeal to consumers , but it does not force them to buy the product .
consumers still control the final buying decision .
so long as teachers fail to distinguish between teaching and learning , they will continue to undertake to do for children that which only children can do for themselves .
teaching children to read is not passing reading on to them .
it is certainly not endless hours spent in activities about reading .
douglas insists that " reading cannot be taught directly and schools should stop trying to do the impossible . "
teaching and learning are two entirely different processes .
they differ in kind and function .
the function of teaching is to create the conditions and the climate that will make it possible for children to devise the most efficient system for teaching themselves to read .
teaching is also public activity : it can be seen and observed .
learning to read involves all that each individual does to make sense of the world of printed language .
almost all of it is private , for learning is an occupation of the mind , and that process is not open to public scrutiny .
if teacher and learner roles are not interchangeable , what then can be done through teaching that will aid the child in the quest for knowledge ?
smith has one principal rule for all teaching instructions .
" make learning to read easy , which means making reading a meaningful , enjoyable and frequent experience for children . "
when the roles of teacher and learner are seen for what they are , and when both teacher and learner fulfill them appropriately , then much of the pressure and feeling of failure for both is eliminated .
learning to read is made easier when teachers create an environment where children are given the opportunity to solve the problem of leaning to read by reading .
would be language teachers everywhere have one thing in common : they all want some recognition of their professional status and skills , and a job .
the former requirement is obviously important on a personal level , but it is vital if you are to have any chance of finding work .
ten years ago , the situation was very different .
in virtually every developing country , and in many developed countries as well , being a native english speaker was enough to get you employed as an english teacher .
now employers will only look at teachers who have the knowledge , the skills and attitudes to teach english effectively .
the result of this has been to raise non-native english teachers to the same status as their native counterparts — something they have always deserved but seldom enjoyed .
non-natives are now happy — linguistic discrimination is a thing of the past .
an ongoing research project , funded by the university of cambridge , asked a sample of teachers , teacher educators and employers in more than 40 countries whether they regard the native / non-native speakers distinction as being at all important .
" no " was the answer .
as long as candidates could teach and had the required level of english , it didn ’ t matter who they were and where they came from .
thus , a new form of discrimination — this time justified because it singled out the unqualified — liberated the linguistically oppressed .
but the cambridge project did more than just that : it confirmed that the needs of native and non-native teachers are extremely similar .
unless we spend money to spot and prevent asteroids now , one might crash into earth and destroy life as we know it , say some scientists .
asteroids are bigger versions of the meteoroids that race across the night sky .
most orbit the sun far from earth and don ’ t threaten us .
but there are also thousands of asteroids whose orbits put them on a collision course with earth .
buy $ 50 million worth of new telescopes right now .
then spend $ 10 million a year for the next 25 years to locate most of the space rocks .
by the time we spot a fatal one , the scientists say , we ’ ll have a way to change its course .
some scientists favor pushing asteroids off course with nuclear weapons .
but the cost wouldn ’ t be cheap .
is it worth it ?
two things experts consider when judging any risk re : 1 ) how likely the event is ; and 2 ) how bad the consequences if the event occurs .
experts think an asteroid big enough to destroy lots of life might strike earth once every 500,000 years .
sounds pretty rare — but if one did fall , it would be the end of the world .
" if we don ’ t take care of these big asteroids , they ’ ll take care of us , " says one scientist .
" it ’ s that simple . "
the cure , though , might be worse than the disease .
do we really want fleets of nuclear weapons sitting around on earth ?
" the world has less to fear from doomsday rocks than from a great nuclear fleet set against them , " said a new york times article .
believe it or not , optical illusion can cut highway crashes .
japan is a case in point .
it has reduced automobile crashes on some roads by nearly 75 percent using a simple optical illusion .
bent stripes , called chevrons , painted on the roads make drivers think that they are driving faster than they really are , and thus drivers slow down .
now the american automobile association foundation for traffic safety in washington d . c . is planning to repeat japan ’ s success .
starting next year , the foundation will paint chevrons and other patterns of stripes on selected roads around the country to test how well the patterns reduce highway crashes .
excessive speed plays a major role in as much as one fifth of all fatal traffic accidents , according to the foundation .
to help reduce those accidents , the foundation will conduct its tests in areas where speed-related hazards are the greatest — curves , exit slopes , traffic circles , and bridges .
some studies suggest that straight , horizontal bars painted across roads can initially cut the average speed of drivers in half .
however , traffic often returns to full speed within months as drivers become used to seeing the painted bars .
chevrons , scientists say , not only give drivers the impression that they are driving faster than they really are but also make a lane appear to be narrower .
the result is a longer lasting reduction in highway sped and the number of traffic accidents .
amtrak was experiencing a downswing in ridership along the lines comprising its rail system .
of major concern to amtrak and its advertising agency ddb needham , were the long-distance western routes where ridership had been declining significantly . ]
at one time , trains were the only practical way to cross the vast areas of the west .
trains were fast , very luxurious , and quite convenient compared to other forms of transportation existing at the time .
however , times change and the automobile became america ’ s standard of convenience .
also , air travel had easily established itself as the fastest method of traveling great distances .
therefore , the task for ddb needham was to encourage consumers to consider other aspects of train travel in order to change their attitudes and increase the likelihood that trains would be considered for travel in the west .
two portions of the total market were targeted : 1 ) anxious fliers — those concerned with safety , relaxation , and cleanliness and 2 ) travel-lovers — those viewing themselves as relaxed , casual , and interested in the travel experience as part of their vacation .
the agency then developed a campaign that focused on travel experiences such as freedom , escape , relaxation , and enjoyment of the great western outdoors .
it stressed experiences gained by using the trains and portrayed western train trips as wonderful adventures .
advertisements showed pictures of the beautiful scenery that could be enjoyed along some of the more famous western routes and emphasized the romantic names of some of these trains ( empire builder , etc . ) .
these ads were strategically placed among family-oriented tv shows and programs involving nature and america in order to most effectively reach target audiences .
results were impressive .
the empire builder , which was focused on in one ad , enjoyed a 15 percent increase in profits on its chicago to seattle route .
why does cram go bad faster than butter ?
some researchers think they have the answer , and it comes down to the structure of the food , not its chemical composition — a finding that could help rid some processed foods of chemical preservatives .
cream and butter contain pretty much the same substances , so why cream should sour much faster has been a mystery .
both are emulsions — tiny globules of one liquid evenly distributed throughout another .
the difference lies in what ’ s in the globules and what ’ s in the surrounding liquid , says brocklehurst , who led the investigation .
in cream , fatty globules drift about in a sea of water .
in butter , globules of a watery solution are locked away in a sea of fat .
the bacteria which make the food go bad prefer to live in the watery regions of the mixture .
" this means that in cream , the bacteria are free to grow throughout the mixture , " he says .
when the situation is reversed , the bacteria are locked away in compartments buried deep in the sea of fat .
trapped in this way , individual colonies cannot spread and rapidly run out of nutrients .
they also slowly poison themselves with their waste products .
" in butter , you get a self-limiting system which stops the bacteria growing , " says brocklehurst .
the researchers are already working with food companies keen to see if their products can be made resistant to bacterial attack through alterations to the food ’ s structure .
brocklehurst believes it will be possible to make the emulsions used in salad cream , for instance , more like that in butter .
the key will be to do this while keeping the salad cream liquid and not turning it into a solid lump .
long after the 1998 world cup was won , disappointed fans were still cursing the disputed refereeing decisions that denied victory to their team .
a researcher was appointed to study the performance of some top referees .
the researcher organized an experimental tournament involving four youth teams .
each match lasted an hour , divided into three periods of 20 minutes during which different referees were in charge .
observers noted down the referees ’ errors , of which there were 61 over the tournament .
converted to a standard match of 90 minutes , each referee made almost 23 mistakes , a remarkably high number .
the researcher then studied the videotapes to analyse the matches in detail .
surprisingly , he found that errors were more likely when the referees were close to the incident .
when the officials got it right , they were , on average , 17 meters away from the action .
the average distance in the case of errors was 12 meters .
the research shows the optimum distance is about 20 meters .
there also seemed to be an optimum speed .
correct decisions came when the referees were moving at a speed of about 2 meters per second .
the average speed for errors was 4 meters per second .
if fifa , football ’ s international ruling body , wants to improve the standard of refereeing at the next world cup , it should encourage referees to keep their eyes on the action from a distance , rather than rushing to keep up with the ball , the researcher argues .
he also says that fifa ’ s insistence that referees should retire at age 45 may be misguided .
if keeping up with the action is not so important , their physical condition is less critical .
questions 56 to 60 are based on the following passage .
while still in its early stages , welfare reform has already been judged a great success in many states — at least in getting people off welfare .
it ’ s estimated that more than 2 million people have left the rolls since 1994 .
in the past four years , welfare rolls in athens country have been cut in half .
but 70 percent of the people who left in the past tow years took jobs that paid less than $ 6 an hour .
the result : the athens county poverty rate still remains at more than 30 percent — twice the national average .
for advocates for the poor , that ’ s an indication much more needs to be done .
" more people are getting jobs , but it ’ s not making their lives any better , " says kathy lairn , a policy analyst at the center on budget and policy priorities in washington .
a center analysis of us census data nationwide found that between 1995 and 1996 , a greater percentage of single , female-headed households were earning money on their own , but that average income for these households actually went down .
but for many , the fact that poor people are able to support themselves almost as well without government aid as they did with it is in itself a huge victory .
" welfare was a poison .
it was a toxin that was poisoning the family , " says robert rector , a welfare-reform policy analyst .
" the reform in changing the moral climate in low-income communities .
it ’ s beginning to rebuild the work ethic , which is much more important . "
mr . rector and others argued that once " the habit of dependency is cracked , " then the country can make other policy changes aimed at improving living standards .
americans are pound of their variety and individuality , yet they love and respect few things more than a uniform , whether it is the uniform of an elevator operator or the uniform of a five-star general .
why are uniforms so popular in the united states ?
among the arguments for uniforms , one of the first is that in the eyes of most people they look more professional than civilian clothes .
people have become conditioned to expect superior quality from a man who wears a uniform .
the television repairman who wears uniform tends to inspire more trust than one who appears in civilian clothes .
faith in the skill of a garage mechanic is increased by a uniform .
what easier way is there for a nurse , a policeman , a barber , or a waiter to lose professional identity than to step out of uniform ?
uniforms also have many practical benefits .
they save on other clothes .
they save on laundry bills .
they are tax-deductible .
they are often more comfortable and more durable than civilian clothes .
primary among the arguments against uniforms is their lack of variety and the consequent loss of individuality experienced by people who must wear them .
though there are many types of uniforms , the wearer of any particular type is generally stuck with it , without change , until retirement .
when people look alike , they tend to think , speak , and act similarly , on the job at least .
uniforms also give rise to some practical problems .
though they are long-lasting , often their initial expense is greater than the cost of civilian clothes .
some uniforms are also expensive to maintain , requiring professional dry cleaning rather than the home laundering possible with many types of civilian clothes .
since we are social beings , the quality of our lives depends in large measure on our interpersonal relationships .
one strength of the human condition is our tendency to give and receive support from one another under stressful circumstances .
social support consists of the exchange of resources among people based on their interpersonal ties .
those of us with strong support systems appear better able to cope with major life changes and daily hassles .
people with strong social ties live longer and have better health than those without such ties .
studies over a range of illnesses , from depression to heart disease , reveal that the presence of social support helps people fend off illness , and the absence of such support makes poor health more likely .
social support cushions stress in a number of ways .
first , friends , relatives , and co-workers may let us know that they value us .
our self-respect is strengthened when we feel accepted by others despite our faults and difficulties .
second , other people often provide us with informational support .
they help us to define and understand our problems and find solutions to them .
third , we typically find social companionship supportive .
engaging in leisure-time activities with others helps us to meet our social needs while at the same time distracting us from our worries and troubles .
finally , other people may give us instrumental support — financial aid , material resources , and needed services — that reduces stress by helping us resolve and cope with our problems .
dogs are social animals and without proper training , they will behave like wild animals .
they will soil your house , destroy your belongings , bark excessively , fight other dogs and even bite you .
nearly all behavior problems are perfectly normal dog activities that occur at the wrong time or place or are directed at the wrong thing .
the key to preventing or treating behavior problems is learning to teach the dog to redirect its normal behavior to outlets that are acceptable in the domestic setting .
one of the best things you can do for your dog and yourself is to obedience train it .
obedience training doesn ’ t solve all behavior problems , but it is the foundation for solving just about any problem .
training pens up a line of communication between you and your dog .
effective communication is necessary to instruct your dog about what you want it to do .
training is also an easy way to establish the social rank order .
when your dog obeys a simple request of " come here , sit , " it is showing obedience and respect for you .
it is not necessary to establish yourself as top dog or leader of the pack by using extreme measure .
you can teach your dog its subordinate role by teaching it to show submission to you .
most dogs love performing tricks for you to pleasantly accept that you are in charge .
training should be fun and rewarding for you and your dog .
it can enrich your relationship and make living together more enjoyable .
a well-trained dog is more confident and can more safely be allowed a greater amount of freedom than an untrained animal .
engineering students are supposed to be examples of practicality and rationality , but when it comes to my college education i am an idealist and a fool .
in high school i wanted to be an electrical engineer and , of course , any sensible student with my aims would have chosen a college with a large engineering department , famous reputation and lots of good labs and research equipment .
but that ’ s not what i did .
i chose to study engineering at a small liberal-arts university that doesn ’ t even offer a major in electrical engineering .
obviously , this was not a practical choice ; i came here for more noble reasons .
i wanted a broad education that would provide me with flexibility and a value system to guide me in my career .
i wanted to open my eyes and expand my vision by interacting with people who weren ’ t studying science or engineering .
my parents , teachers and other adults praised me for such a sensible choice .
they told me i was wise and mature beyond my 18 years , and i believed them .
i headed off to college sure i was going to have an advantage over those students who went to big engineering " factories " where they didn ’ t care if you have values or were flexible .
i was going to be a complete engineer : technical genius and sensitive humanist all in one .
now i ’ m not so sure .
somewhere along the way my noble ideals crashed into reality , as all noble ideals eventually do .
after three years of struggling to balance math , physics and engineering courses with liberal-arts courses , i have learned there are reasons why few engineering students try to reconcile engineering with liberal-arts courses in college .
the reality that has blocked my path to become the typical successful student is that engineering and the liberal arts simply don ’ t ’ mix as easily as i assumed in high school .
individually they shape a person in very different ways ; together they threaten to confuse .
the struggle to reconcile the two fields of study is difficult .
priscilla ouchida ’ s " energy-efficient " house turned out to be a horrible dream .
when she and her engineer husband married a few years ago , they built a $ 100,000 , three-bedroom home in california .
tightly sealed to prevent air leaks , the house was equipped with small double-paned windows and several other energy-saving features .
problems began as soon as the couple moved in , however .
priscilla ’ s eyes burned .
her throat was constantly dry .
she suffered from headaches and could hardly sleep .
it was as though she had suddenly developed a strange illness .
experts finally traced the cause of her illness .
the level of formaldehyde gas in her kitchen was twice the maximum allowed by federal standards for chemical workers .
the source of the gas ?
her new kitchen cabinets and wall-to-wall carpeting .
the ouchidas are victims of indoor air pollution , which is not given sufficient attention partly because of the nation ’ s drive to save energy .
the problem itself isn ’ t new .
" the indoor environment was dirty long before energy conservation came along , " says moschandreas , a pollution scientist at geomet technologies in maryland .
" energy conservation has tended to accentuate the situation in some cases . "
the problem appears to be more troublesome in newly constructed homes rather than old ones .
back in the days when energy was cheap , home builders didn ’ t worry much about unsealed cracks .
because of such leaks , the air in an average home was replaced by fresh outdoor air about once an hour .
as a result , the pollutants generated in most households seldom build up to dangerous levels .
in 1993 .
new york state ordered stores to charge a deposit on beverage containers .
within a year .
consumers had returned millions of aluminum cans and glass and plastic bottles .
plenty of companies were eager to accept the aluminum and glass as raw materials for new products .
but because few could figure out what to do with the plastic , much of it wound up buried in landfills .
the problem was not limited to new york .
unfortunately , there were too few uses for second-hand plastic .
today , one out of five plastic soda bottles is recycled in the united states .
the reason for the change is that now there are dozens of companies across the country buying discarded plastic soda bottles and turning them into fence posts , paint brushes , etc .
shrinking landfill space , and rising costs for burying and burning rubbish are forcing local governments to look more closely at recycling .
in many areas , the east coast especially , recycling is already the least expensive waste-management option .
for every ton of waste recycled , a city avoids paying for its disposal , which , in parts of new york , amounts to saving of more than $ 100 per ton .
recycling also stimulates the local economy by creating jobs and trims the pollution control and energy costs of industries that make recycled products by giving them a more refined raw material .
people living on parts of the south coast of england face a serious problem .
in 1993 , the owners of a large hotel and of several houses discovered , to their horror , that their gardens had disappeared overnight .
the sea had eaten into the soft limestone cliffs on which they had been built .
while experts were studying the problem , the hotel and several houses disappeared altogether , sliding down the cliff and into the sea .
erosion of the white cliffs along the south coast of england has always been a problem but it has become more serious in recent years .
dozens of homes have had to be abandoned as the sea has crept farther and farther inland .
experts have studied the areas most affected and have drawn up a map for local people , forecasting the year in which their homes will be swallowed up by the hungry sea .
angry owners have called on the government to erect sea defenses to protect their homes .
government surveyors have pointed out that in most cases , this is impossible .
new sea walls would cost hundreds of millions of pounds and would merely make the waves and currents go further along the coast , shifting the problem from one area to another .
the danger is likely to continue , they say , until the waves reach an inland area of hard rock which will not be eaten as limestone is .
meanwhile , if you want to buy a cheap house with an uncertain future , apply to a house agent in one of the threatened areas on the south coast of england .
you can get a house for a knockdown price but it may turn out to be a knockdown home .
sport is not only physically challenging , but it can also be mentally challenging .
criticism from coaches , parents , and other teammates , as well as pressure to win can create an excessive amount of anxiety or stress for young athletes .
stress can be physical , emotional , or psychological , and research has indicated that it can lead to burnout .
burnout has been described as dropping or quitting of an activity that was at one time enjoyable .
the early years of development are critical years for learning abut oneself .
the sport setting is one where valuable experiences can take place .
young athletes can , for example , learn how to cooperate with others , make friends , and gain other social skills that will be used throughout their lives .
coaches and parents should be aware , at all times , that their feedback to youngsters can greatly affect their children .
youngsters may take their parents ’ and coaches ’ criticisms to heart and find a flaw in themselves .
coaches and parents should also be cautious that youth sport participation does not become work for children .
the outcome of the game should not be more important than the process of learning the sport and other life lessons .
in today ’ s youth sport setting , young athletes may be worrying more about who will win instead of enjoying themselves and the sport .
following a game , many parents and coaches focus on the outcome and find fault with youngsters ’ performances .
positive reinforcement should be provided regardless of the outcome .
research indicates that positive reinforcement motivates and has a greater effect on learning than criticism .
again , criticism can create high levels of stress , which can lead to burnout .
humanity uses a little less than half the water available worldwide .
yet occurrences of shortages and droughts are causing famine and distress in some areas , and industrial and agricultural by-products are polluting water supplies .
since the world ’ population is expected to double in the next 50 years , many experts think we are on the edge of a widespread water crisis .
but that doesn ’ t have to be the outcome .
water shortages do not have to trouble the world — if we start valuing water more than we have in the past .
just as we began to appreciate petroleum more after the 1970s oil crises , today we must start looking at water from a fresh economic perspective .
we can no longer afford to consider water a virtually free resource of which we can use as much as we like in any way we want .
instead , for all uses except the domestic demand of the poor , governments should price water to reflect its actual value .
this means charging a fee for the water itself as well as for the supply costs .
governments should also protect this resource by providing water in more economically and environmentally sound ways .
for example , often the cheapest way to provide irrigation water in the dry tropics is through small-scale projects , such as gathering rainfall in depressions and pumping it to nearby cropland .
no matter what steps governments take to provide water more efficiently , they must change their institutional and legal approaches to water sue .
rather than spread control among hundreds or even thousands of local , regional , and national agencies that watch various aspects of water use , countries should set up central authorities to coordinate water policy .
we can see how the product life cycle works by looking at the introduction of instant coffee .
when it was introduced , most people did not like it as well as " regular " coffee , and it took several years to gain general acceptance ( introduction stage ) .
at one point , though , instant coffee grew rapidly in popularity , and many brands were introduced ( stage of rapid growth ) .
after a while , people became attached to one brand and sales leveled off ( stage of maturity ) .
sales went into a slight decline when freeze-dried coffees were introduced ( stage of decline ) .
the importance of the product life cycle to marketers is this : different stages in the product life cycle call for different strategies .
the goal is to extend product life so that sales and profits do not decline .
one strategy is called market modification .
it means that marketing managers look for new users and market sections .
did you know , for example , that the backpacks that so many students carry today were originally designed for the military ?
market modification also means searching for increased usage among present customers or going for a different market , such as senior citizens .
a marketer may re-position the product to appeal to new market sections .
another product extension strategy is called product modification .
it involves changing product quality , features , or style to attract new users or more usage from present users .
american auto manufacturers are using quality improvement as one way to recapture world markets .
note , also , how auto manufacturers once changed styles dramatically from year to year to keep demand from falling .
some pessimistic experts feel that the automobile is bound to fall into disuse .
they see a day in the not-too-distant future when all autos will be abandoned and allowed to rust .
other authorities , however , think the auto is here to stay .
they hold that the car will remain a leading means of urban travel in the foreseeable future .
the motorcar will undoubtedly change significantly over the next 30 years .
it should become smaller , safer , and more economical , and should not be powered by the gasoline engine .
the car of the future should be far more pollution-free than present types .
regardless of its power source , the auto in the future will still be the main problem in urban traffic congestion .
one proposed solution to this problem is the automated highway system .
when the auto enters the highway system , a retractable arm will drop from the
auto and make contact with a rail , which is similar to those powering subway trains electrically .
once attached to the rail , the car will become electrically powered from the system , and control of the vehicle will pass to a central computer .
the computer will then monitor all of the car's movements .
the driver will use a telephone to dial instructions about his destination into the system .
the computer will calculate the best route , and reserve space for the car all the way to the correct exit from the highway .
the driver will then be free to relax and wait for the buzzer that will warn him of his coming exit .
it is estimated that an automated highway will be able to handle 10,000 vehicles per hour , compared with the 1,500 to 2,000 vehicles that can be carried by a present-day highway .
foxes and farmers have never got on well .
these small dog-like animals have long been
accused of killing farm animals .
they are officially classified as harmful and farmers try to keep their numbers down by shooting or poisoning them .
farmers can also call on the services of their local hunt to control the fox population .
hunting consists of pursuing a fox across the countryside , with a group of specially trained dogs , followed by men and women riding horses .
when the dogs eventually catch the fox they kill it or a hunter shoots it .
people who take part in hunting think of it as a sport ; they wear a special uniform of red coats and white trousers , and follow strict codes of behavior .
but owning a horse and hunting regularly is expensive , so most hunters are wealthy .
it is estimated that up to 100,000 people watch or take part in fox hunting .
but over the last couple of decades the number of people opposed to fox hunting , because they think it is brutal , has risen sharply .
nowadays it is rare for a hunt to pass off without some kind of confrontation between hunters and hunt saboteurs .
sometimes these incidents lead to violence , but mostly saboteurs interfere with the hunt by misleading riders and disturbing the trail of the fox's smell , which the dogs follow .
noisy confrontations between hunters and saboteurs have become so common that they are almost as much a part of hunting as the pursuit of foxes itself .
but this year supporters of fox hunting face a much bigger threat to their sport .
a labour party member of the parliament , mike foster , is trying to get parliament to approve a new law which will make the hunting of wild animals with dogs illegal .
if the law is passed , wild animals like foxes will be protected under the ban in britain .
for an increasing number of students at american universities , old is suddenly in .
the reason is obvious : the graying of america means jobs .
coupled with the aging of the baby-boom generation , a longer life span means that the nation's elderly population is bound to expand significantly over the next 50 years .
by 2050 , 25 percent of all americans will be older than 65 , up from 14 percent in 1995 .
the change poses profound questions for government and society , of course .
but it also creates career opportunities in medicine and health professions , and in law and business as well .
" in addition to the doctors , we're going to need more sociologists , biologists , urban planners and specialized lawyers , " says professor edward schneider of the university of southern california's ( usc ) school of gerontology .
lawyers can specialize in " elder law , " which covers everything from trusts and estates to nursing-home abuse and age discrimination .
businessmen see huge opportunities in the elder market because the baby boomers , 74 million strong , are likely to be the wealthiest group of retirees in human history .
" any student who combines an expert knowledge in gerontology with , say , an mba or law degree will have a license to print money , " one professor says .
margarite santos is a 21 - year-old senior at usc .
she began college as a biology major but found she was " really bored with bacteria . "
so she took a class in gerontology and discovered that she liked it .
she says , " i did volunteer work in retirement homes and it was very satisfying . "
the decline in moral standards-which has long concerned social analysts-has at last captured the attention of average americans .
and jean bethke elshtain , for one , is glad .
the fact that ordinary citizens are now starting to think seriously about the nation's moral climate , says this ethics professor at the university of chicago , is reason to hope that new ideas will come forward to improve it .
but the challenge is not to be underestimated .
materialism and individualism in american society are the biggest obstacles .
" the thought that ' i'm in it for me ' has become deeply rooted in the national consciousness , " ms . elshtain says .
some of this can be attributed to the disintegration of traditional communities , in which neighbors looked out for one another , she says .
with today's greater mobility and with so many couples working , those bonds have been weakened , replaced by a greater emphasis on self .
in a 1996 poll of americans , loss of morality topped the list of the biggest problems facing the u . s . and elshtain says the public is correct to sense that : data show that americans are struggling with problems unheard of in the 1950s , such as classroom violence and a high rate of births to unmarried mothers .
the desire for a higher moral standard is not a lament for some nonexistent " golden age , " elshtain says , nor is it a wishful longing for a time that denied opportunities to women and minorities .
most people , in fact , favor the lessening of prejudice .
moral decline will not be reversed until people find ways to counter the materialism in society , she says .
" slowly , you recognize that the things that matter are those that can't be bought . "
in the 1960s , medical researchers thomas holmes and richard rahe developed a checklist of stressful events .
they appreciated the tricky point that any major change can be stressful .
negative events like " serious illness of a family member " were high on the list , but so were some positive life-changing events , like marriage .
when you take the holmes-rahe test you must remember that the score does not reflect how you deal with stress — it only shows how much you have to deal with .
and we now know that the way you handle these events dramatically affects your chances of staying healthy .
by the early 1970s , hundreds of similar studies had followed holmes and rahe .
and millions of americans who work and live under stress worried over the reports .
somehow , the research got boiled down to a memorable message .
women ’ s magazines ran headlines like " stress causes illness ! "
if you want to stay physically and mentally healthy , the articles said , avoid stressful events .
but such simplistic advice is impossible to follow .
even if stressful events are dangerous , many — like the death of a loved one — are impossible to avoid .
moreover , any warning to avoid all stressful events is a prescription for staying away from opportunities as well as trouble .
since any change can be stressful , a person who wanted to be completely free of stress would never marry , have a child , take a new job or move .
the notion that all stress makes you sick also ignores a lot of what we know about people .
it assumes we ’ re all vulnerable and passive in the face of adversity .
but what about human initiative and creativity ?
many come through periods of stress with more physical and mental vigor than they had before .
we also know that a long time without change or challenge can lead to boredom , and physical and metal strain .
most episodes of absent-mindedness — forgetting where you left something or wondering why you just entered a room — are caused by a simple lack of attention , says schacter .
" you ’ re supposed to remember something , but you haven ’ t encoded it deeply . "
encoding , schacter explains , is a special way of paying attention to an event that has a major impact on recalling it later .
failure to encode properly can create annoying situations .
if you put your mobile phone in a pocket , for example , and don ’ t pay attention to what you did because you ’ re involved in a conversation , you ’ ll probably forget that the phone is in the jacket now hanging in you wardrobe .
" your memory itself isn ’ t failing you , " says schacter .
" rather , you didn ’ t give your memory system the information it needed . "
lack of interest can also lead to absent-mindedness .
" a man who can recite sports statistics from 30 years ago , " says zelinski , " may not remember to drop a letter in the mailbox . "
women have slightly better memories than men , possibly because they pay more attention to their environment , and memory relies on just that .
visual cues can help prevent absent-mindedness , says schacter .
" but be sure the cue is clear and available , " he cautions .
if you want to remember to take a medication with lunch , put the pill bottle on the kitchen table — don ’ t leave it in the medicine chest and write yourself a note that you keep in a pocket .
another common episode of absent-mindedness : walking into a room and wondering why you ’ re there .
most likely , you were thinking about something else .
" everyone does this from time to time , " says zelinski .
the best thing to do is to return to where you were before entering the room , and you ’ ll likely remember .
it is hard to track the blue whale , the ocean ’ s largest creature , which has almost been killed off by commercial whaling and is now listed as an endangered species .
attaching radio devices to it is difficult , and visual sightings are too unreliable to give real insight into its behavior .
so biologists were delighted early this year when , with the help of the navy , they were able to track a particular blue whale for 43 days , monitoring its sounds .
this was possible because of the navy ’ s formerly top-secret system of underwater listening devices spanning the oceans .
tracking whales is but one example of an exciting new world just opening to civilian scientists after the cold war as the navy starts to share and partly uncover its global network of underwater listening system built over the decades to track the ships of potential enemies .
earth scientists announced at a news conference recently that they had used the system for closely monitoring a deep-sea volcanic eruption for the first time and that they plan similar studies .
other scientists have proposed to use the network for tracking ocean currents and measuring changes in ocean and global temperatures .
the speed of sound in water is roughly one mile a second — slower than through land but faster than through air .
what is most important , different layers of ocean water can act as channels for sounds , focusing them in the same way a stethoscope does when it carries faint noises from a patient ’ s chest to a doctor ’ s ear .
this focusing is the main reason that even relatively weak sounds in the ocean , especially low-frequency ones , can often travel thousands of miles .
the fitness movement that began in the late 1960s and early 1970s centered around aerobic exercise .
millions of individuals became engaged in a variety of aerobic activities , and literally thousands of health spas developed around the country to capitalize on this emerging interest in fitness , particularly aerobic dancing for females .
a number of fitness spas existed prior to this aerobic fitness movement , even a national chain with spas in most major cities .
however , their focus was not on aerobics , but rather on weight-training programs designed to develop muscular mass , strength , and endurance in their primarily male enthusiasts .
these fitness spas did not seem to benefit financially form the aerobic fitness movement to better health , since medical opinion suggested that weight-training programs offered few , if any , health benefits .
in recent years , however , weight training has again become increasingly popular for males and for females .
many current programs focus not only on developing muscular strength and endurance but on aerobic fitness as well .
historically , most physical-fitness tests have usually included measures of muscular strength and endurance , not for health-related reasons , but primarily because such fitness components have been related to performance in athletics .
however , in recent years , evidence has shown that training programs designed primarily to improve muscular strength and endurance might also offer some health benefits as well .
the american college of sports medicine now recommends that weight training be part of a total fitness program for healthy americans .
increased participation in such training is one of the specific physical activity and fitness objectives of healthy people 2000 : national health promotion and disease prevention objectives .
like many of my generation , i have a weakness for hero worship .
at some point , however , we all begin to question our heroes and our need for them .
this leads us to ask : what is a hero ?
despite immense differences in cultures , heroes around the world generally share a number of characteristics that instruct and inspire people .
a hero does something worth talking about .
a hero has a story of adventure to tell and a community who will listen .
but a hero goes beyond mere fame .
heroes serve powers or principles larger than themselves .
like high-voltage transformers , heroes take the energy of higher powers and step it down so that it can be used by ordinary people .
the hero lives a life worthy of imitation .
those who imitate a genuine hero experience life with new depth , enthusiasm , and meaning .
a sure test for would-be heroes is what or whom do they serve ?
what are they willing to live and die for ?
if the answer or evidence suggests they serve only their own fame , they may be famous persons but not heroes .
madonna and michael jackson are famous , but who would claim that their fans find life more abundant ?
heroes are catalysts for change .
they have a vision from the mountaintop .
they have the skill and the charm to move the masses .
they create new possibilities .
without gandhi , india might still be part of the british empire .
without rosa parks and martin luther king , jr . , we might still have segregated buses , restaurants , and parks .
it may be possible for large-scale change to occur without leaders with magnetic personalities , but the pace of change would be slow , the vision uncertain , and the committee meetings endless .
according to a survey , which was based on the responses of over 188,000 students , today ’ s traditional-age college freshmen are " more materialistic and less altruistic " than at any time in the 17 years of the poll .
not surprising in these hard times , the student ’ s major objective " is to be financially well off .
less important than ever is developing a meaningful philosophy of life . "
it follows then that today the most popular course is not literature or history but accounting .
interest in teaching , social service and the " altruistic " fields is at a low .
on the other hand , enrollment in business programs , engineering and computer science is way up .
that ’ s no surprise either .
a friend of mine ( a sales representative for a chemical company ) was making twice the salary of her college instructors her first year on the job — even before she completed her two-year associate degree .
while it ’ s true that we all need a career , it is equally true that our civilization has accumulated an incredible amount of knowledge in fields far removed from our own and that we are better for our understanding of these other contributions — be they scientific or artistic .
it is equally true that , in studying the diverse wisdom of others , we learn how to think .
more important , perhaps , education teaches us to see the connections between things , as well as to see beyond our immediate needs .
weekly we read of unions who went on strike for higher wages , only to drive their employer out of business .
no company ; no job .
how shortsighted in the long run !
but the most important argument for a broad education is that in studying the accumulated wisdom of the ages , we improve our moral sense .
i saw a cartoon recently which shows a group of businessmen looking puzzled as they sit around a conference table ; one of them is talking on the intercom : " miss baxter , " he says , " could you please send in someone who can distinguish right from wrong ? "
from the long-term point of view , that ’ s what education really ought to be about .
new technology links the world as never before .
our planet has shrunk .
it ’ s now a " global village " where countries are only seconds away by fax or phone or satellite link .
and , of course , our ability to benefit from this high-tech communications equipment is greatly enhanced by foreign language skills .
deeply involved with this new technology is a breed of modern businesspeople who have a growing respect for the economic value of doing business abroad .
in modern markets , success overseas often helps support domestic business efforts .
overseas assignments are becoming increasingly important to advancement within executive ranks .
the executive stationed in another country no longer need fear being " out of sight and out of mind . "
he or she can be sure that the overseas effort is central to the company ’ s plan for success , and that promotions often follow or accompany an assignment abroad .
if an employee can succeed in a difficult assignment overseas , superiors will have greater confidence in his or her ability to cope back in the united states where cross-cultural considerations and foreign language issues are becoming more and more prevalent .
thanks to a variety of relatively inexpensive communications devices with business applications , even small businesses in the united states are able to get into international markets .
english is still the international language of business .
but there is an ever-growing need for people who can speak another language .
a second language isn ’ t generally required to get a job in business , but having language skills gives a candidate the edge when other qualifications appear to be equal
the employee posted abroad who speaks the country ’ s principal language has an opportunity to fast-forward certain negotiations , and cam have the cultural insight to know when it is better to move more slowly .
the employee at the home office who can communicate well with foreign clients over the telephone or by fax machine is an obvious asset to the firm .
in recent years , israeli consumers have grown more demanding as they ’ ve become wealthier and more worldly-wise .
foreign travel is a national passion ; this summer alone , one in 10 citizens will go abroad .
exposed to higher standards of service elsewhere , israelis are returning home expecting the same .
american firms have also begun arriving in large numbers .
chains such as kfc , mcdonald ’ s and pizza hut are setting a new standard of customer service , using strict employee training and constant monitoring to ensure the friendliness of frontline staff .
even the american habit of telling departing customers to " have a nice day " has caught on all over israel .
" nobody wakes up in the morning and says , " let ’ s be nicer , ’ " says itsik cohen , director of a consulting firm .
" nothing happens without competition . "
privatization , or the threat of it , is a motivation as well .
monopolies that until recently have been free to take their customers for granted now fear what michael perry , a marketing professor , calls " the revengeful consumer . "
when the government opened up competition with bezaq , the phone company , its international branch lost 40 % of its market share , even while offering competitive rates .
says perry , " people wanted revenge for all the years of bad service . "
the electric company , whose monopoly may be short-lived , has suddenly mopped requiring users to wait half a day for a repairman .
now , appointments are scheduled to the half-hour .
the graceless el al airlines , which is already at auction , has retrained its employees to emphasize service and is boasting about the results in an ad campaign with the slogan , " you can feel the change in the air . "
for the first time , praise outnumbers complaints on customer survey sheets .
on average , american kids ages 3 to 12 spent 29 hours a week in school , eight hours more that they did in 1981 .
they also did more household work and participated in more of such organized activities as soccer and ballet .
involvement in sports , in particular , rose almost 50 % from 1981 to 1997 : boys now spend an average of four hours a week playing sports ; girls log hall that time .
all in all , however , children ’ s leisure time dropped from 40 % of the day in 1981 to 25 %
" children are affected by the same time crunch that affects their parents , " says sandra hofferth , who headed the recent study of children ’ s timetable .
a chief reason , she says , is that more mothers are working outside the home .
( nevertheless , children in both double-income and " male breadwinner " households spent comparable amounts of time interacting with their parents 19 hours and 22 hours respectively .
in contrast , children spent only 9 hours with their single mothers . )
all work and no play could make for some very messed-up kids .
" play is the most powerful way a child explores the world and learns about himself , " says t . berry brazelton , professor at harvard medical school unstructured play encourages independent thinking and allows the young to negotiate their relationships with their peers , but kids ages 3 to 12 spent only 12 hours a week engaged in it .
the children sampled spent a quarter of their rapidly decreasing " free time " watching television .
but that , believe it or not , was one of the findings parents might regard as good news .
if they ’ re spending less time in front of the tv set , however , kids aren ’ t replacing it with reading .
despite efforts to get kids more interested in books , the children spent just over an hour a week reading .
let ’ s face it , who ’ s got the time ?
henry ford , the famous u . s . inventor and car manufacturer , once said , " the business of america is business . "
by this he meant that the u . s . way of life is based on the values of the business world .
few would argue with ford ’ s statement .
a brief glimpse at a daily newspaper vividly shows how much people in the united states think about business .
for example , nearly every newspaper has a business section , in which the deals and projects , finances and management , stock prices and labor problems of corporations are reported daily .
in addition , business news can appear in every other section .
most national news has an important financial aspect to it .
welfare , foreign aid , the federal budget , and the policies of the federal reserve bank are all heavily affected by business .
moreover , business news appears in some of the unlikeliest places .
the world of arts and entertainment is often referred to as " the entertainment industry " or " show business . "
the positive side of henry ford ’ s statement can be seen in the prosperity that business has brought to u . s . life .
one of the most important reasons so many people from all over the world come to live in the united states is the dream of a better job .
jobs are produced in abundance because the u . s . economic system is driven by competition .
people believe that this system crates more wealth , more jobs , and a materially better way of life .
the negative side of henry ford ’ s statement , however , can be seen when the word business is taken to mean big business .
and the term big business — referring to the biggest companies , is seen in opposition to labor .
throughout u . s . history working people have had to fight hard for higher wages , better working conditions , and the fight to form unions .
today , many of the old labor disputes are over , but there is still some employee anxiety .
downsizing — the laying off of thousands of workers to keep expenses low and profits high — creates feelings of insecurity for many .
professor smith recently persuaded 35 people , 23 of them women , to keep a diary of all their absent-minded actions for a fortnight .
when he came to analyse their embarrassing lapses in a scientific report , he was surprised to find that nearly all of them fell into a few groupings , nor did the lapses appear to be entirely random .
one of the women , for instance , on leaving her house for work one morning threw her dog her earrings and tried to fix a dog biscuit on her ear .
" the explanation for this is that the brain is like a computer , " explains the professor .
" people programme themselves to do certain activities regularly .
it was the woman ’ s custom every morning to throw her dog two biscuits and then put on her earrings .
but somehow the action got reversed in the programme , " about one in twenty of the incidents the volunteers reported were these " programme assembly failures . "
altogether the volunteers logged 433 unintentional actions that they found themselves doing — an average of twelve each , there appear to be peak periods in the day when we are at our zaniest .
these are two hours some time between eight a . m . and noon , between four and six p . m . with a smaller peak between eight and ten p . m . " among men the peak seems to be when a changeover in brain " programmes ’ occurs , as for instance between going to and from work . "
women on average reported slightly more lapses — 12.5 compared with 10.9 for men — probably because they were more reliable reporters .
a startling finding of the research is that the absent-minded activity is a hazard of doing things in which we are skilled .
normally , you would expect that skill reduces the number of errors we make .
but trying to avoid silly slips by concentrating more could make things a lot worse — even dangerous .
it ’ s no secret that many children would be healthier and happier with adoptive parents than with the parents that nature dealt them .
that ’ s especially true of children who remain in abusive homes because the law blindly favors biological parents .
it ’ s also true of children who suffer for years in foster homes because of parents who can ’ t or won ’ t care for them but refuse to give up custody rights .
fourteen-year-old kimberly mays fits neither description , but her recent court victory could eventually help children who do .
kimberly has been the object of an angry custody baffle between the man who raised her and her biological parents , with whom she has never lived .
a florida judge ruled that the teenager can remain with the only father she ’ s ever known and that her biological parents have " no legal claim " on her .
the ruling , though it may yet be reversed , sets aside the principle that biology is the primary determinant of parentage .
that ’ s an important development , one that ’ s long overdue .
shortly after birth in december 1978 , kimberly mays and another infant were mistakenly switched and sent home with the wrong parents .
kimberly ’ s biological parents , ernest and regina twigg , received a child who died of a heart disease in 1988 .
medical tests showed that the child wasn ’ t the twiggs ’ own daughter , but kimt only was , thus sparking a custody battle with robert mays .
in 1989 , the two families agreed that mr . mays would maintain custody with the twiggs getting visiting fights .
those rights were ended when mr . mays decided that kimberly was being harmed .
the decision to leave kimberly with mr . mays rendered her suit debated .
but the judge made clear that kimberly did have standing to sue on her own behalf .
thus he made clear that she was more than just property to be handled as adults saw fit .
certainly , the biological link between parent and child is fundamental .
but biological parents aren ’ t always preferable to adoptive ones , and biological parentage does not convey an absolute ownership that cancels all the rights of children .
what personal qualities are desirable in a teacher ?
i think the following would be generally accepted .
first , the teacher ’ s personality should be lively and attractive .
this does not rule out people who are plain-looking , or even ugly , because many such people have great personal charm .
but it does rule out such types as the over-excitable , sad , cold , and frustrated .
secondly , it is not merely desirable but essential for a teacher to have a genuine capacity for sympathy , a capacity to understand the minds and feelings of other people , especially , since most teachers are school teachers , the minds and feelings of children .
closely related with this is the capacity to be tolerant — not , indeed , of what is wrong , but of the weaknesses and immaturity of human nature which induce ( i ) ~ ) people , and again especially children , to make mistakes .
thirdly , i hold it essential for a teacher to be both intellectually and morally honest .
this means that he will be aware of his intellectual strengths and limitations , and will have thought about and decided upon the moral principles by which his life shall be guided .
there is no contradiction in my going on to say that a teacher should be a bit of an actor .
that is part of the technique of teaching , which demands that every now and then a teacher should be able to put on an act to enliven a lesson , correct a fault , or award praise .
children , especially young children , live in a world that is rather larger than life .
a teacher must be capable of infinite patience .
this , i may say , is largely a matter of self-discipline and self-training , for we are none of us born like that .
finally , i think a teacher should have the kind of mind which always wants to go on learning .
teaching is a job at which one will never be perfect ; there is always something more to learn about it .
there are three principal objects of study : the subjects which the teacher is teaching ; the methods by which the subjects can best be taught to the particular pupils in the classes he is teaching ; and — by far the most important — the children , young people , or adults to whom the subjects are to be taught .
the two fundamental principles of british education today are that education is education of the whole person , and that it is best acquired through full and active co-operation between two persons , the teacher and the learner .
a rectal study , published in last week ’ s journal of the american medical association , offers a picture of how risky it is to get a lift from a teenage driver , indeed , a 16 - year-old driver with three or more passengers is three times as likely to have a fatal accident as a teenager driving alone , by contrast , the risk of death for drivers between 30 and 59 decreases with each additional passenger .
the author also found that the death rates for teenage drivers increased dramatically after 10 p . m . , and especially after midnight , with passengers in the car , the driver was even more likely to die in a late-night accident .
robert foss , a scientist at the university of north carolina highway safety research center , says the higher death rates for teenage drivers have less to do with " really stupid behavior " than with just a lack of driving experience .
" the basic issue . "
be says , " is that adults who are responsible for issuing licenses fail to recognize how complex and skilled a task driving is . "
both he and the author of the study believe that the way to mitigate the problem is to have states institute so-called graduated licensing systems , in which getting a license is a multistage process .
a graduated license requires that a teenager first prove himself capable of driving in the presence of an adult , followed by a period of driving with night of massager restrictions , before graduating to full driving privileges .
graduated licensing systems have reduced teenage driver crashes , according to recent studies , about half of the states now have some sort of graduated licensing system in place , but only 10 of those states have restrictions on passengers , california is the strictest , with a novice driver prohibited from carrying any passenger under 20 ( without the presence of an adult over 25 ) for the first six months .
if you know exactly what you want , the best route to a job is to get specialized training .
a recent survey shows that companies the graduates in such fields as business and health care who can go to work immediately with very little on-the-job training .
that's especially true of booing fields that are challenging for workers .
at cornell's school of hotel administration , for example , bachelor's degree graduates get an average of four or five jobs offers with salaries ranging from the high teens to the low 20s and plenty of chances for rapid advancement .
large companies , especially , like a background of formal education coupled with work experience .
but in the long run , too much specialization doesn't pay off .
business , which has been flooded with mbas , no longer considers the degree an automatic stamp of approval .
the mba may open doors and command a higher salary initially , but the impact of a degree washes out after five years .
as further evidence of the erosion of corporate faith in specialized degrees , michigan state ’ s scheetz cites a pattern in corporate hiring practices , although companies tend to take on specialists as new hires , they often seek out generalists for middle and upper-level management .
" they want someone who isn ’ t constrained by nuts and bolts to look at the big picture , " says scheetz .
this sounds suspiciously like a formal statement that you approve of the liberal-arts graduate .
time and again labor-market analysts mention a need for talents that liberal-arts majors are assumed to have : writing and communication skills , organizational skills , open-mindedness and adaptability , and the ability to analyze and solve problems , david birch claims he does not hire anybody with an mba or an engineering degree , " i hire only liberal-arts people because they have a less-than-canned way of doing things , " says birch .
liberal-arts means an academically thorough and strict program that includes literature , history , mathematics , economics , science , human behavior — plus a computer course or two .
with that under your belt , you can feel free to specialize , " a liberal-arts degree coupled with an mba or some other technical training is a very good combination in the marketplace , " says scheetz .
about six years ago i was eating lunch in a restaurant in new york city when a woman and a young boy sat down at the next table , i couldn ’ t help overhearing parts of their conversation .
at one point the woman asked : " so , how have you been ? "
and the boy — who could not have been more than seven or eight years old — replied .
" frankly , i've been feeling a little depressed lately . ' '
this incident stuck in my mind because it confirmed my growing belief that children are changing .
as far as i can remember , my friends and i didn ’ t find out we were " depressed " until we were in high school .
the evidence of a change in children has increased steadily in recent years .
children don ’ t seem childlike anymore .
children speak more like adults , dress more like adults and behave more like adults than they used to .
whether this is good or bad is difficult to say , but it certainly is different .
childhood as it once was no longer exists , why ?
human development is based not only on innate biological states , but also on patterns of access to social knowledge .
movement from one social role to another usually involves learning the secrets of the new status .
children have always been taught adult secrets , but slowly and in stages : traditionally , we tell sixth graders things we keep hidden from fifth graders .
in the last 30 years .
however , a secret-revelation machine has been installed in 98 percent of american homes .
it is called television , television passes information , and indiscriminately , to all viewers alike , be they children or adults .
unable to resist the temptation , many children turn their attention from printed texts to the less challenging , more vivid moving pictures .
communication through print , as a matter of fact , allows for a great deal of control over the social information to which children have access .
reading and writing involve a complex code of symbols that must be memorized and practices .
children must read simple books before they can read complex materials .
" opinion " is a word that is used carelessly today .
it is used to refer to matters of taste , belief , and judgment .
this casual use would probably cause little confusion if people didn ’ t attach too much importance to opinion .
unfortunately , most to attach great importance to it .
" i have as much right to my opinion as you to yours , ' ' and ' ' everyone ’ s entitled to his opinion , ' ' are common expressions .
in fact , anyone who would challenge another's opinion is likely to be branded intolerant .
is that label accurate ?
is it intolerant to challenge another's opinion ?
it depends on what definition of opinion you have in mind .
for example , you may ask a friend , " what do you think of the new ford cars ? "
and he may reply , " in my opinion , they're ugly . "
in this case , it would not only be intolerant to challenge his statement , but foolish .
for it's obvious that by opinion he means his personal preference , a matter of taste .
and as the old saying goes , ' ' it's pointless to argue about matters of taste . "
but consider this very different use of the term , a newspaper reports that the supreme court has delivered its opinion in a controversial case .
obviously the justices did not shale their personal preferences , their mere likes and dislikes , they stated their considered judgment , painstakingly arrived at after thorough inquiry and deliberation .
most of what is referred to as opinion falls somewhere between these two extremes .
it is not an expression of taste .
nor is it careful judgment .
yet it may contain elements of both .
it is a view or belief more or less casually arrived at , with or without examining the evidence .
is everyone entitled to his opinion ?
of course , this is not only permitted , but guaranteed .
we are free to act on our opinions only so long as , in doing so , we do not harm others .
sports is one of the world ’ s largest industries , and most athletes are professionals who are paid for their efforts .
because an athlete succeeds by achievement only — not by economic background or family connections — sports can be a fast route to wealth , and many athletes play only for money than for love .
this has not always been true .
in the ancient olympics the winner got only a wreath of olive leaves .
even though the winners became national heroes , the games remained amateur for centuries .
athletes won fame , but no money .
as time passed , however , the contests became increasingly less amateur and cities began to hire athletes to represent them .
by the fourth century a . d . , the olympics were ruined , and they were soon ended .
in 1896 , the olympic games were revived with the same goal of pure amateur competition .
the rules bar athletes who have ever received a $ 50 prize or an athletic scholars or who have spent four weeks in a training camp .
at least one competitor in the 1896 games met these qualifications .
he was spiridon loues , a water carrier who won the marathon race , after race , a rich athenian offered him anything he wanted .
a true amateur , loues accepted only a cart and a horse .
then he gave up running forever .
but loues was an exception and now , as the chairman of the german olympic committee said , " nobody pays any attention to these rules . "
many countries pay their athletes to train year-round , and olympic athletes are eager to sell their names to companies that make everything from ski equipment to fast food .
even the games themselves have become a huge business .
countries fight to hold the olympics not only for honor , but for money .
the 1972 games in munich cost the germans 545 million dollars , but by selling medal symbols , tv rights , food , drink , hotel rooms , and souvenirs , they managed to make a profit .
appropriately , the symbol of victory in the olympic games is no longer a simple olive wreath — it is a gold medal .
i ’ m usually fairly skeptical about any research that concludes that people are either happier or unhappier or more or less certain of themselves than they were 50 years ago .
while any of these statements might be true , they are practically impossible to prove scientifically .
still , i was struck by a report which concluded that today ’ s children are significantly more anxious than children in the 1950s .
in fact , the analysis showed , normal children ages 9 to 17 exhibit a higher level of anxiety today than children who were treated for mental illness 50 years ago .
why are america ’ s kids so stressed ?
the report cites two main causes : increasing physical isolation — brought on by high divorce rates and less involvement in community , among other things — and a growing perception that the world is a more dangerous place .
given that we can ’ t turn the clock back , adults can still do plenty to help the next generation cope .
at the top of the list is nurturing a better appreciation of the limits of individualism .
no child is an island .
strengthening social ties helps build communities and protect individuals against stress .
to help kids build stronger connections with others , you can pull the plug on tvs and computers .
your family will thank you later .
they will have more time for face-to-face relationships , and they will get more sleep .
limit the amount of virtual violence your children are exposed to .
it ’ s not just video games and movies ; children see a lot of murder and crime on the local news .
keep your expectations for your children reasonable .
many highly successful people never attended harvard or yale .
make exercise part of your daily routine .
it will help you cope with your own anxieties and provide a good model for your kids .
sometimes anxiety is unavoidable .
but it doesn ’ t have to ruin your life .
it is easier to negotiate initial salary requirement because once you are inside , the organizational constraints influence wage increases .
one thing , however , is certain : your chances of getting the raise you feel you deserve are less if you don ’ t at least ask for it .
men tend to ask for more , and they get more , and this holds true with other resources , not just pay increases .
consider beth ’ s story :
i did not get what i wanted when i did not ask for it .
we had cubicle offices and window offices .
i sat in the cubicles with several male colleagues .
one by one they were moved into window offices , while i remained in the cubicles , several males who were hired after me also went to offices .
one in particular told me he was next in line for an office and that it had been part of his negotiations for the job .
i guess they thought me content to stay in the cubicles since i did not voice my opinion either way .
it would be nice if we all received automatic pay increases equal to our merit , but " nice " isn ’ t a quality attributed to most organizations .
if you feel you deserve a significant raise in pay , you ’ ll probably have to ask for it .
performance is your best bargaining chip when you are seeking a raise .
you must be able to demonstrate that you deserve a raise .
timing is also a good bargaining chip .
if you can give your boss something he or she needs ( a new client or a sizable contract , for example ) just before merit pay decisions are being made , you are more likely to get the raise you want .
use information as a bargaining chip too .
find out what you are worth on the open market .
what will someone else pay for your services ?
go into the negotiations prepared to place your chips on the table at the appropriate time and prepared to use communication style to guide the direction of the interaction .
when families gather for christmas dinner , some will stick to formal traditions dating back to grandma ’ s generation .
their tables will be set with the good dishes and silver , and the dress code will be sunday-best .
but in many other homes , this china-and-silver elegance has given way to a stoneware - and-stainless informality , with dresses assuming an equally casual-friday look .
for hosts and guests , the change means greater simplicity and comfort .
for makers of fine china in britain , it spells economic hard times .
last week royal doulton , the largest employer in stoke-on-trent , announced that it is eliminating 1,000 jobs — one-fifth of its total workforce .
that brings to more than 4,000 the number of positions lost in 18 months in the pottery region .
wedgwood and other pottery factories made cuts earlier .
although a strong pound and weak markets in asia play a role in the downsizing , the layoffs in stoke have their roots in earthshaking social shifts .
a spokesman for royal doulton admitted that the company " has been somewhat slow in catching up with the trend " toward casual dining .
families eat together less often , he explained , and more people eat alone , either because they are single or they eat in front of television ;
even dinner parties , if they happen at all , have gone casual .
in a time of long work hours and demanding family schedules , busy hosts insist , rightly , that it ’ s better to share a takeout pizza on paper plates in the family room than to wait for the perfect moment or a " real " dinner party .
too often , the perfect moment never comes .
iron a fine-patterned tablecloth ?
forget it .
polish the silver ?
who has time ?
yet the loss of formality has its down side .
the fine points of etiquette that children might once have learned at the table by observation or instruction from parents and grandparents ( " chew with your mouth closed . "
" keep your elbows off the table . " )
must be picked up elsewhere .
some companies now offer etiquette seminars for employees who may be competent professionally but clueless socially .
some houses are designed to be smart .
others have smart designs .
an example of the second type of house won an award of excellence from the american institute of architects .
located on the shore of sullivan ’ s island off the coast of south carolina , the award-winning cube-shaped beach house was built to replace one smashed to pieces by hurricane hugo 10 years ago .
in september 1989 , hugo struck south carolina , killing 18 people and damaging or destroying 36,000 homes in the state .
before hugo , many new houses built along south carolina ’ s shoreline were poorly constructed , and enforcement of building codes wasn ’ t strict , according to architect ray huff , who created the cleverly-designed beach house .
in hugo ’ s wake , all new shoreline houses are required to meet stricter , better-enforced codes .
the new beach house on sullivan ’ s island should be able to withstand a category 3 hurricane with peak winds of 179 to 209 kilometers per hour .
at first sight , the house on sullivan ’ s island looks anything but hurricane-proof .
its redwood shell makes it resemble " a large party lantern " at night , according to one observer .
but looks can be deceiving .
the house ’ s wooden frame is reinforced with long steel rods to give it extra strength .
to further protect the house from hurricane damage , huff raised it 2.7 meters off the ground on timber pilings — long , slender columns of wood anchored deep in the sand .
pilings might appear insecure , but they are strong enough to support the weight of the house .
they also elevate the house above storm surges .
the pilings allow the surges to run under the house instead of running into it .
" these swells of water come ashore at tremendous speeds and cause most of the damage done to beach-front buildings , " said huff .
huff designed the timber pilings to be partially concealed by the house ’ s ground-to-roof shell .
" the shell masks the pilings so that the house doesn ’ t look like it ’ s standing with its pant legs pulled up , " said huff .
in the event of a storm surge , the shell should break apart and let the waves rush under the house , the architect explained .
i'm usually fairly skeptical about any research that concludes that people are either happier or unhappier or more or less certain of themselves than they were 50 years ago .
still , i was struck by a report which concluded that today's children are significantly more anxious than children in the 1950s .
why are america's kids so stressed ?
the report cites two main causes : increasing physical isolation - - brought on by high divorce rates and less involvement in community , among other things - - and a growing perception that the world is a more dangerous place .
given that we can't turn the clock back , adults can still do plenty to help the next generation cope .
it's not just video games and movies ; children see a lot of murder and crime on the local news .
but it doesn't have to ruin your life .
one thing , however , is certain : your chances of getting the raise you feel you deserve are less if you don't at least ask for it .
consider beth's story :
it would be nice if we all received automatic pay increases equal to our merit , but " nice " isn't a quality attributed to most organizations .
if you feel you deserve a significant raise in pay , you'll probably have to ask for it .
when families gather for christmas dinner , some will stick to formal traditions dating back to grandma's generation .
for makers of fine china in britain , it
spells economic hard times .
last week royal doulton , the largest employer in stoke-on-trent , announced that it is eliminating 1,000 jobs--one-fifth of its total workforce .
in a time of long work hours and demanding family schedules , busy hosts insist , rightly , that it's better to share a takeout pizza on paper plates in the family room than to wait for the perfect moment or a " real " dinner party .
located on the shore of sullivan's island off the coast of south carolina , the award-winning cube-shaped beach house was built to replace one smashed to pieces by hurricane hugo 10 years ago .
before hugo , many new houses built along south carolina's shoreline were poorly constructed , and enforcement of building codes wasn't strict , according to architect ray huff , who created the cleverly-designed beach house .
in hugo's wake , all new shoreline houses are required to meet stricter , better-enforced codes .
the new beach house on sullivan's island should be able to withstand a category 3 hurricane with peak winds of 179 to 209 kilometers per hour .
at first sight , the house on sullivan's island looks anything but hurricane-proof .
the house's wooden frame is reinforced with long steel rods to give it extra strength .
to further protect the house from hurricane damage , huff raised it 2.7 meters off the ground on timber pilings - - long , slender columns of wood anchored deep in the sand .
huff designed the timber pilings to be partially concealed by the house's ground-to-roof shell .
" the shell masks the pilings so that the house doesn't look like it's standing with its pant legs pulled up , " said huff .
you may be all these things at the office , and more .
but when it comes to getting ahead , experts say , the abcs of business should include a p , for politics , as in office politics .
dale carnegie suggested as much more than 50 years ago hard work alone doesn ’ t ensure career advancement .
you have to be able to sell yourself and your ideas , both publicly and behind the scenes .
yet , despite the obvious rewards of engaging in office politics — a better job , a raise , praise — many people are still unable — or unwilling — to play the game .
people assume that office politics involves some manipulative behavior , says deborah comer , an assistant professor of management at hofstra university .
but politics derives from the word " polite " .
it can mean lobbying and forming associations .
it can mean being kind and helpful , or even trying to please your superior , and then expecting something in return .
in fact , today , experts define office politics as proper behavior used to pursue one ’ s own self-interest in the workplace .
in many cases , this involves some form of socializing within the office environment — not just in large companies , but in small workplaces as well .
the first thing people are usually judged on is their ability to perform well on a consistent basis , says neil p . lewis , a management psychologist .
but if two or three candidates are up for a promotion , each of whom has reasonably similar ability , a manager is going to promote the person he or she likes best .
it ’ s simple human nature .
yet , psychologists say , many employees and employers have trouble with the concept of politics in the office .
some people , they say , have an idealistic vision of work and what it takes to succeed .
still others associate politics with flattery , fearful that , if they speak up for themselves , they may appear to be flattering their boss for favors .
experts suggest altering this negative picture by recognizing the need for some self-promotion .
as soon as it was revealed that a reporter for progressive magazine had discovered how to make a hydrogen bomb , a group of firearm fans formed the national hydrogen bomb association , and they are now lobbying against any legislation to stop americans from owning one .
the constitution , said the association ’ s spokesman , gives everyone the right to own arms .
it doesn ’ t spell out what kind of arms .
but since anyone can now make a hydrogen bomb , the public should be able to buy it to protect themselves .
don ’ t you think it ’ s dangerous to have one in the house , particularly where there are children around ?
the national hydrogen bomb association hopes to educate people in the safe handling of this type of weapon .
we are instructing owners to keep the bomb in a locked cabinet and the fuse separately in a drawer .
some people consider the hydrogen bomb a very fatal weapon which could kill somebody .
the spokesman said , hydrogen bombs don ’ t kill people — people kill people .
the bomb is for self-protection and it also has a deterrent effect .
if somebody knows you have a nuclear weapon in your house , they ’ re going to think twice about breaking in .
but those who want to ban the bomb for american citizens claim that if you have one locked in the cabinet , with the fuse in a drawer , you would never be able to assemble it in time to stop an intruder .
another argument against allowing people to own a bomb is that at the moment it is very expensive to build one .
so what your association is backing is a program which would allow the middle and upper classes to acquire a bomb while poor people will be left defenseless with just handguns .
sign has become a scientific hot button .
only in the past 20 years have specialists in language study realized that signed languages are unique — a speech of the hand .
they offer a new way to probe how the brain generates and understands language , and throw new light on an old scientific controversy whether language , complete with grammar , is something that we are born with , or whether it is a learned behavior .
the current interest in sign language has roots in the pioneering work of one rebel teacher at gallaudet university in washington , d . c . , the world ’ s only liberal arts university for deaf people .
when bill stokoe went to gallaudet to teach english , the school enrolled him in a course in signing .
but stokoe noticed something odd among themselves , students signed differently from his classroom teacher .
stokoe had been taught a sort of gestural code , each movement of the hands representing a word in english .
at the time , american sign language ( asl ) was thought to be no more than a form of pidgin english .
but stokoe believed the hand talk his students used looked richer .
he wondered might deaf people actually have a genuine language and could that language be unlike any other on earth it was 1955 , when even deaf people dismissed their signing as substandard .
stokoe ’ s idea was academic heresy .
it is 37 years later .
stokoe — now devoting his time to writing and editing books and journals and to producing video materials on asl and the deaf culture — is having lunch at a cafe near the gallaudet campus and explaining how he started a revolution .
for decades educators fought his idea that signed languages are natural languages like english , french and japanese .
they assumed language must be based on speech , the modulation of sound .
but sign language is based on the movement of hands , the modulation of space .
what i said , stokoe explains , is that language is not mouth stuff — it ’ s brain stuff .
it came as something of a surprise when diana , princess of wales , made a trip to angola in 1997 , to support the red cross ’ s campaign for a total ban on all anti-personnel landmines .
within hours of arriving in angola , television screens around the world were filled with images of her comforting victims injured in explosions caused by landmines .
" i knew the statistics " , she said .
" but putting a face to those figures brought the reality home to me ; like when i met sandra , a 13 - year-old girl who had lost her leg , and people like her . "
the princess concluded with a simple message : " we must stop landmines " .
and she used every opportunity during her visit to repeat this message .
but , back in london , her views were not shared by some members of the british government , which refused to support a ban on these weapons .
angry politicians launched an attack on the princess in the press .
they described her as very ill-informed and a loose cannon . "
he princess responded by brushing aside the criticisms .
" this is a distraction we do not need .
all i ’ m trying to do is help . "
opposition parties , the media and the public immediately voiced their support for the princess .
to make matters worse for the government , it soon emerged that the princess ’ s trip had been approved by the foreign office , and that she was in fact very well-informed about both the situation in angola and the british government ’ s policy regarding landmines .
the result was a severe embarrassment for the government .
to try and limit the damage , the foreign secretary , malcolm rifkidnd , claimed that the princess ’ s views on landmines were not very different from government policy , and that it was working towards a worldwide ban .
the defense secretary , michael portillo , claimed the matter was a misinterpretation or misunderstanding .
for the princess , the trip to this war-torn country was an excellent opportunity to use her popularity to show the world how much destruction and suffering landmines can cause .
she said that the experience had also given her the chance to get closer to people and their problems .
scratchy throats , stuffy noses and body aches all spell misery , but being able to tell if the cause is a cold or flu may make a difference in how long the misery lasts .
the american lung association ( ala ) has issued new guidelines on combating colds and the flu , and one of the keys is being able to quickly tell the two apart .
that ’ s because the prescription drugs available for the flu need to be taken soon after the illness sets in .
as for colds , the sooner a person starts taking over-the-counter remedy , the sooner relief will come .
the common cold and the flu are both caused by viruses .
more than 200 viruses can cause cold symptoms , while the flu is caused by three viruses — flu a , b and c . there is no cure for either illness , but the flu can be prevented by the flu vaccine , which is , for most people , the best way to fight the flu , according to the ala .
but if the flu does strike , quick action can help .
although the flu and common cold have many similarities , there are some obvious signs to look for .
cold symptoms such as stuffy nose , runny nose and scratchy throat typically develop gradually , and adults and teens often do not get a fever .
on the other hand , fever is one of the characteristic features of the flu for all ages .
and in general , flu symptoms including fever and chills , sore throat and body aches come on suddenly and are more severe than cold symptoms .
the ala notes that it may be particularly difficult to tell when infants and preschool age children have the flu .
it advises parents to call the doctor if their small children have flu-like symptoms .
both cold and flu symptoms can be eased with over-the-counter medications as well .
however , children and teens with a cold or flu should not take aspirin for pain relief because of the risk of reye syndrome ， a rare but serious condition of the liver and central nervous system .
there is , of course , no vaccine for the common cold .
but frequent hand washing and avoiding close contact with people who have colds can reduce the likelihood of catching one .
in a time of low academic achievement by children in the united states , many americans are turning to japan , a country of high academic achievement and economic success , for possible answers .
however , the answers provided by japanese preschools are not the ones americans expected to find .
in most japanese preschools , surprisingly little emphasis is put on academic instruction .
in one investigation , 300 japanese and 210 american preschool teachers , child development specialists , and parents were asked about various aspects of early childhood education .
only 2 percent of the japanese respondents listed " to give children a good start academically " as one of their top three reasons for a society to have preschools .
in contrast , over half the american respondents chose this as one of their top three choices .
to prepare children for successful careers in first grade and beyond , japanese schools do not teach reading , writing , and mathematics , but rather skills such as persistence , concentration , and the ability to function as a member of a group .
the vast majority of young japanese children are taught to read at home by their parents .
in the recent comparison of japanese and american preschool education , 91 percent of japanese respondents chose providing children with a group experience as one of their top three reasons for a society to have preschools .
sixty-two percent of the more individually oriented americans listed group experience as one of their top three choices .
an emphasis on the importance of the group seen in japanese early childhood education continues into elementary school education .
like in america , there is diversity in japanese early childhood education .
some japanese kindergartens have specific aims , such as early musical training or potential development .
in large cities , some kindergartens are attached to universities that have elementary and secondary schools .
some japanese parents believe that if their young children attend a university-based program , it will increase the children ’ s chances of eventually being admitted to top-rated schools and universities .
several more progressive programs have introduced free play as a way out for the heavy intellectualizing in some japanese kindergartens .
lead deposits , which accumulated in soil and snow during the 1960 ’ s and 70 ’ s , were primarily the result of leaded gasoline emissions originating in the united states .
in the twenty years that the clean air act has mandated unleaded gas use in the united states , the lead accumulation worldwide has decreased significantly .
a study published recently in the journal nature shows that air-borne leaded gas emissions from the united states were the leading contributor to the high concentration of lead in the snow in greenland .
the new study is a result of the continued research led by dr . charles boutron , an expert on the impact of heavy metals on the environment at the national center for scientific research in france .
a study by dr . boutron published in 1991 showed that lead levels in arctic snow were declining .
in his new study , dr . boutron found the ratios of the different forms of lead in the leaded gasoline used in the united states were different from the ratios of european , asian and canadian gasolines and thus enabled scientists to differentiate the lead sources .
the dominant lead ratio found in greenland snow matched that found in gasoline from the united states .
in a study published in the journal ambio , scientists found that lead levels in soil in the northeastern united states had decreased markedly since the introduction of unleaded gasoline .
many scientists had believed that the lead would stay in soil and snow for a longer period .
the authors of the ambio study examined samples of the upper layers of soil taken from the same sites of 30 forest floors in new england , new york and pennsylvania in 1980 and in 1990 .
the forest environment processed and redistributed the lead faster than the scientists had expected .
scientists say both studies demonstrate that certain parts of the ecosystem respond rapidly to reductions in atmospheric pollution , but that these findings should not be used as a license to pollute .
exercise is one of the few factors with a positive role in long-term maintenance of body weight .
unfortunately , that message has not gotten through to the average american , who would rather try switching to " light " beer and low-calorie bread than increase physical exertion .
the centers for disease control , for example , found that fewer than one-fourth of overweight adults who were trying to shed pounds said they were combining exercise with their diet .
in rejecting exercise , some people may be discouraged too much by caloric-expenditure charts : for example , one would have to briskly walk three miles just to work off the 275 calories in one delicious danish pastry .
even exercise professionals concede half a point here .
" exercise by itself is a very tough way to lose weight , " says york onnen , program director of the president ’ s council on physical fitness and sports .
still , exercise ’ s supporting role in weight reduction is vital .
a study at the boston university medical center of overweight police officers and other public employees confirmed that those who dieted without exercise regained almost all their old weight , while those who worked exercise into their daily routine maintained their new weight .
if you have been sedentary and decide to start walking one mile a day , the added exercise could burn an extra 100 calories daily .
in a year ’ s time , assuming no increase in food intake , you could lose ten pounds .
by increasing the distance of your walks gradually and making other dietary adjustments , you may lose even more weight .
is there enough oil beneath the arctic national wildlife refuge ( anwr ) to help secure america ’ s energy future ?
president bush certainly thinks so .
he has argued that tapping anwr ’ s oil would help ease california ’ s electricity crisis and provide a major boost to the country ’ s energy independence .
but no one knows for sure how much crude oil lies buried beneath the frozen earth with the last government survey , conducted in 1998 , projecting output anywhere from 3 billion to 16 billion barrels .
the oil industry goes with the high end of the range , which could equal as much as 10 % of u . s . consumption for as long as six years .
by pumping more than 1 million barrels a day from the reserve for the next two three decades , lobbyists claim , the nation could cut back on imports equivalent to all shipments to the u . s . from saudi arabia .
sounds good .
an oil boom would also mean a multibillion-dollar windfall in tax revenues , royalties and leasing fees for alaska and the federal government .
best of all , advocates of drilling say , damage to the environment would be insignificant .
" we ’ ve never had a document case of oil rig chasing deer out onto the pack ice . "
says alaska state representative scott ogan .
not so far , say environmentalists .
sticking to the low end of government estimates , the national resources defense council says there may be no more than 3.2 billion barrels of economically recoverable oil in the coastal plain of anwr , a drop in the bucket that would do virtually nothing to ease america ’ s energy problems .
and consumers would wait up to a decade to gain any benefits , because drilling could begin only after much bargaining over leases , environmental permits and regulatory review .
as for anwr ’ s impact on the california power crisis , environmentalists point out that oil is responsible for only 1 % of the golden state ’ s electricity output — and just 3 % of the nation ’ s .
" tear " em apart ! "
" kill the fool ! "
" murder the referee ! "
these are common remarks one may hear at various sporting events .
at the time they are made , they may seem innocent enough .
but let ’ s not kid ourselves .
they have been known to influence behavior in such a way as to lead to real bloodshed .
volumes have been written about the way words affect us .
it has been shown that words having certain connotations may cause us to react in ways quite foreign to what we consider to be our usual humanistic behavior .
i see the term " opponent " as one of those words .
perhaps the time has come to delete it from sports terms .
the dictionary meaning of the term " opponent " is " adversary " : " enemy " ; " one who opposes your interests . "
" thus , when a player meets an opponent , he or she may tend to treat that opponent as an enemy .
at such times , winning may dominate one ’ s intellect , and every action , no matter how gross , may be considered justifiable .
i recall an incident in a handball game when a referee refused a player ’ s request for a time out for a glove change because he did not considered then wet enough .
the player proceeded to rub his gloves across his wet t-shirt and then exclaimed .
" are they wet enough now ? "
in the heat of battle , players have been observed to throw themselves across the court without considering the consequences that such a move might have on anyone in their way .
i have also witnessed a player reacting to his opponent ’ s international and illegal blocking by deliberately hitting him with the ball as hard as he could during the course of play .
off the court , they are good friends .
does that make any sense ?
it certainly gives proof of a court attitude which departs from normal behavior .
therefore , i believe it is time we elevated the game to the level where it belongs thereby setting an example to the rest of the sporting world .
replacing the term " opponent " with " associate " could be an ideal way to start .
the dictionary meaning of the term " associate " is " colleague " ; " friend " ; " companion . "
reflect a moment !
you may soon see and possibly feel the difference in your reaction to the term " associate " rather than " opponent . "
consumers are being confused and misled by the hodge-podge of environmental claims made by household products , according to a " green labeling " study published by consumers international friday .
among the report ’ s more outrageous findings-a german fertilizer described itself as " earthworm friendly " a brand of flour said it was " non-polluting " and a british toilet paper claimed to be " environmentally friendlier "
the study was written and researched by britain ’ s national consumer council ( ncc ) for lobby group consumer international .
it was funded by the german and dutch governments and the european commission .
" while many good and useful claims are being made , it is clear there is a long way to go in ensuring shoppers are adequately informed about the environmental impact of products they buy , " said consumers international director anna fielder .
the 10 - country study surveyed product packaging in britain , western europe , scandinavia and the united states .
it found that products sold in germany and the united kingdom made the most environmental claims on average .
the report focused on claims made by specific products , such as detergent insect sprays and by some garden products .
it did not test the claims , but compared them to labeling guidelines set by the international standards organization ( iso ) in september , 1999 .
researchers documented claims of environmental friendliness made by about 2,000 products and found many too vague or too misleading to meet iso standards .
" many products had specially-designed labels to make them seem environmentally friendly , but in fact many of these symbols mean nothing , " said report researcher philip page .
" laundry detergents made the most number of claims with 158 .
household cleaners were second with 145 separate claims , while paints were third on our list with 73 .
the high numbers show how very confusing it must be for consumers to sort the true from the misleading . "
he said .
the iso labeling standards ban vague or misleading claims on product packaging , because terms such as " environmentally friendly " and " non-polluting " cannot be verified .
" what we are now pushing for is to have multinational corporations meet the standards set by the iso . "
said page .
two hours from the tall buildings of manhattan and philadelphia live some of the world ’ s largest black bears .
they are in northern pennsylvania ’ s pocono mountains , a home they share with an abundance of other wildlife .
the streams , lakes , meadows , mountain ridges and forests that make the poconos an ideal place for black bears have also attracted more people to the region .
open spaces are threatened by plans for housing estates and important habitats are endangered by highway construction .
to protect the poconos natural beauty from irresponsible development , the nature conservancy named the area one of america ’ s " last great places " .
operating out of a century-old schoolhouse in the village of long pond , pennsylvania , the conservancy ’ s bud cook is working with local people and business leaders to balance economic growth with environmental protection .
by forging partnerships with people like francis altemose , the conservancy has been able to protect more than 14,000 acres of environmentally important land in the area .
altemose ’ s family has farmed in the pocono area for generations .
two years ago francis worked with the conservancy to include his farm in a county farmland protection program .
as a result , his family ’ s land can be protected from development and the altemoses will be better able to provide a secure financial future for their 7 - year-old grandson .
cook attributes the conservancy ’ s success in the poconos to having a local presence and a commitment to working with local residents
" the key to protecting these remarkable lands is connecting with the local community , " cook said .
" the people who live there respect the land .
they value quiet forests , clear streams and abundant wildlife .
they are eager to help with conservation effort .
for more information on how you can help the nature conservancy protect the poconos and the world ’ s other " last great places , " please call 1-888-564 6864 or visit us on the world wide web at www.tnc.org .
we commonly think of sportsmanship in connection with athletic contests , but it also applies to individual outdoor sports .
not everyone who picks up a fishing rod or goes out with a gun is a sportsman .
the sportsman first of all obeys the fish and game laws , not because he is liable to be punished as a violator , but because he knows that in the main these laws are made for his best interests .
the following are some of the things that those who would qualify for membership in the sportsmanship fraternity will do .
1 .
take no more game than the bag limit provided for by the fish and game laws .
the person who comes back from a trip boasting about the large number of fish or game taken is not a sportsman but a game hog .
2 .
observe the unwritten rules of fair play .
this means shooting game birds only when the birds are " on the wing " .
for the same reason , do not use a shotgun to shoot a rabbit or similar animal while it is sitting or standing still .
3 .
be careful in removing illegal or undersized fish from the hook .
this should be done only after wetting the hands .
this is necessary because the body of the fish is covered with a thin , protective film which will stick to your dry hands .
if the hands are dry when the fish is handled , the film is torn from the body of the fish .
without the protective film , the fish is more easily attacked by diseases .
if you wish to release a fish that is hooked in such a way that it will be impossible to be close to the hook as convenient .
in a remarkably short time , the hook will break down and the fish will remain almost unharmed .
fish have been known to feed successfully while hooks were still in their lips .
4 .
be sure of the identity of your target before you shoot .
many useful and harmless species of wildlife are thoughtlessly killed by the uninformed person who is out with a gun to kill whatever flies within range .
just five one-hundredths of an inch thick , light golden in color and with a perfect " saddle curl , " the lay ’ s potato chip seems an unlikely weapon for global domination .
but its maker .
frito-lay .
thinks otherwise .
" potato chips are a snack food for the world , " said salman amin , the company ’ s head of global marketing .
amin believes there is no corner of the world that can resist the charms of a frito-lay potato chip .
frito-lay is the biggest snack maker in america , owned by pepsico .
and accounts for over half of the parent company ’ s $ 3 billion annual profits .
but the u . s . snack food market is largely saturated , and to grow , the company has to look overseas .
its strategy rests on two beliefs : first a global product offers economies of scale with which local brands cannot compete .
and second , consumers in the 21st century are drawn to " global " as a concept .
" global " does not mean products that are consciously identified as american , but ones than consumes-especially young people-see as part of a modem , innovative world in which people are linked across cultures by shared beliefs and tastes .
potato chips are an american invention , but most chinese , for instance , do not know than frito-lay is an american company .
instead , riskey , the company ’ s research and development head , would hope they associate the brand with the new world of global communications and business .
with brand perception a crucial factor , riskey ordered a redesign of the frito-lay logo .
the logo , along with the company ’ s long-held marketing image of the " irresistibility " of its chips , would help facilitate the company ’ s global expansion .
the executives acknowledge that they try to swing national eating habits to a food created in america , but they deny that amounts to economic imperialism .
rater , they see frito-lay as spreading the benefits of free enterprise across the world .
" we ’ re making products in those countries , we ’ re adapting them to the tastes of those countries , building businesses and employing people and changing lives , " said steve reinemund , pepsico ’ s chief executive .
in communities north of denver , residents are pitching in to help teachers and administrators as the vrain school district tries to solve a $ 13.8 million budget shortage blamed on mismanagement .
" we ’ re worried about our teachers and principals , and we really don ’ t want to lose them because of this , " one parent sail .
" if we can help ease their financial burden , we will . "
teachers are grateful , but know it may be years before the district is solvent .
they feel really good about the parent support , but they realize it ’ s impossible for then to solve this problem .
the 22,000- student district discovered the shortage last month .
" it ’ s extraordinary .
nobody would have imagined something happening like this at this level , " said state treasurer mike coffman .
coffman and district officials last week agreed on a state emergency plan freeing yp a $ 9.8 million loan that enabled the payroll to be met for 2,700 teachers and staff in time for the holidays .
district officials also took $ 1.7 million from student-activity accounts its 38 schools .
at coffman ’ s request , the district attorney has begun investigating the district ’ s finances .
coffman says he wants to know whether district officials hid the budget shortage until after the november election , when voters approved a $ 212 million bond issue for schools .
in frederick , students ’ parents are buying classroom supplies and offering to pay for groceries and utilities to keep first-year teachers and principals in their jobs .
some $ 36,000 has been raised in donations from safeway .
a chevrolet dealership donated $ 10,000 and forgave the district ’ s $ 10,750 bill for renting the driver educating cars .
ibm contributed 4,500 packs of paper .
" we employ thousands of people in this community , " said mitch carson , a hospital chief executive , who helped raise funds .
" we have children in the school , and we see how they could be affected . "
at creek high school , three students started a website that displays newspaper articles , district information and an email forum 。 " rumors about what ’ s happening to the district are moving at lighting speed , " said a student .
" we wanted to know the truth , and spread that around instead . "
" humans should not try to avoid stress any more than they would shun food , love or exercise . "
said dr . hans selye , the first physician to document the effects of stress on the body .
while here ’ s on question that continuous stress is harmful , several studies suggest that challenging situations in which you ’ re able to rise to the occasion can be good for you .
in a 2001 study of 158 hospital nurses , those who faced considerable work demands but coped with the challenge were more likely to say they were in good health than those who felt they stress that you can manage also boost immune function .
in a study at the academic center for dentistry in amsterdam , researchers put volunteers through two stressful experiences .
in the first , a timed task that required memorizing a list followed by a short test , subjects through a gory video on surgical procedures .
those who did well on the memory test had an increase in levels of immunoglobulin a , an antibody that ’ s the body ’ s first line of defense against germs .
the video-watchers experienced a downturn in the antibody .
stress prompts the body to produce certain stress hormones .
in short bursts these hormones have a positive effect , including improved memory function .
" they can help nerve cells handle information and put it into storage , " says dr . bruce mcewen of rockefeller university in new york .
but in the long run these hormones can have a harmful effect on the body and brain .
" sustained stress is not good for you , " says richard morimoto , a researcher at northwestern university in illinois studying the effects of stress on longevity , " it ’ s the occasional burst of stress or brief exposure to stress that could be protective . "
if you want to teach your children how to say sorry , you must be good at saying it yourself , especially to your own children .
but how you say it can be quite tricky .
if you say to your children " i ’ m sorry i got angry with you , but ... " what follows that " but " can render the apology ineffective : " i had a bad day " or " your noise was giving me a headache " leaves the person who has been injured feeling that he should be apologizing for his bad behavior in expecting an apology .
another method by which people appear to apologize without actually doing so is to say " i ’ m sorry you ’ re upset " ; this suggests that you are somehow at fault for allowing yourself to get upset by what the other person has done .
then there is the general , all covering apology , which avoids the necessity of identifying a specific act that was particularly hurtful or insulting , and which the person who is apologizing should promise never to do again .
saying " i ’ m useless as a parent " does not commit a person to any specific improvement .
these pseudo-apologies are used by people who believe saying sorry shows weakness , parents who wish to teach their children to apologize should see it as a sign of strength , and therefore not resort to these pseudo-apologies .
but even when presented with examples of genuine contrition , children still need help to become a ware of the complexities of saying sorry .
a three-year-old might need help in understanding that other children feel pain just as he does , and that hitting a playmate over the head with a heavy toy requires an apology .
a six-year-old might need reminding that spoiling other children ’ s expectations can require an apology .
a 12 - year-old might need to be shown that raiding the biscuit tin without asking permission is acceptable , but that borrowing a parent ’ s clothes without permission is not .
small schools rising this year's list of the top 100 high schools shows that today , those with fewer students are flourishing .
fifty years ago , they were the latest thing in educational reform : big , modern , suburban high schools with students counted in the thousands .
as baby boomers came of high-school age , big schools promised economic efficiency .
a greater choice of courses , and , of course , better football teams .
only years later did we understand the trade-offs this involved : the creation of excessive bureaucracies ， the difficulty of forging personal connections between teachers and students.sat scores began dropping in 1963 ; today , on average , 30 % of students do not complete high school in four years , a figure that rises to 50 % in poor urban neighborhoods .
while the emphasis on teaching to higher , test-driven standards as set in no child left behind resulted in significantly better performance in elementary ( and some middle ) schools , high schools for a variety of reasons seemed to have made little progress .
size isn't everything , but it does matter , and the past decade has seen a noticeable countertrend toward smaller schools .
this has been due , in part , to the bill and melinda gates foundation , which has invested $ 1.8 billion in american high schools , helping to open about 1,000 small schools-most of them with about 400 kids each with an average enrollment of only 150 per grade , about 500 more are on the drawing board .
districts all over the country are taking notice , along with mayors in cities like new york , chicago and san diego .
the movement includes independent public charter schools , such as no . 1 basis in tucson , with only 120 high-schoolers and 18 graduates this year .
it embraces district-sanctioned magnet schools , such as the talented and gifted school , with 198 students , and the science and engineering magnet , with 383 , which share a building in dallas , as well as the city honors school in buffalo , n . y . , which grew out of volunteer evening seminars for students .
and it includes alternative schools with students selected by lottery ， such as h-b woodlawn in arlington , va . and most noticeable of all , there is the phenomenon of large urban and suburban high schools that have split up into smaller units of a few hundred , generally housed in the same grounds that once boasted thousands of students all marching to the same band .
hillsdale high school in san mateo , calif , is one of those , ranking no . 423 - among the top 2 % in the country-on newsweek's annual ranking of america's top high schools .
the success of small schools is apparent in the listings .
ten years ago , when the first newsweek list based on college-level test participation was published , only three of the top 100 schools had graduating classes smaller than 100 students .
this year there are 22 .
nearly 250 schools on the full , newsweek list of the top 5 % of schools nationally had fewer than 200 graduates in 2007 .
although many of hillsdale's students came from wealthy households , by the late 1990 average test scores were sliding and it had earned the unaffectionate nickname " hillsjail . "
jeff gilbert .
a hillsdale teacher who became principal last year , remembers sitting with other teachers watching students file out of a graduation ceremony and asking one another in astonishment , " how did that student graduate ? "
so in 2003 hillsdale remade itself into three " houses , " romantically named florence , marrakech and kyoto .
each of the 300 arriving ninth graders are randomly assigned to one of the houses .
where they will keep the same four core subject teachers for two years , before moving on to another for 11th and 12th grades .
the closeness this system cultivates is reinforced by the institution of " advisory " classes teachers meet with students in groups of 25 , five mornings a week , for open-ended discussions of everything from homework problems to bad saturday-night dates .
the advisers also meet with students privately and stay in touch with parents , so they are deeply invested in the students ' success .
" we're constantly talking about one another's advisers , " says english teacher chris crockett .
" if you hear that yours isn't doing well in math , or see them sitting outside the dean's office , it's like a personal failure . "
along with the new structure came a more demanding academic program , the percentage of freshmen taking biology jumped from 17 to 95 .
" it was rough for some .
but by senior year , two-thirds have moved up to physics , " says gilbert " our kids are coming to school in part because they know there are adults here who know them and care for them .
" but not all schools show advances after downsizing , and it remains to be seen whether smaller schools will be a cure-all solution .
the newsweek list of top u . s . high schools was made this year , as in years past , according to a single metric , the proportion of students taking college-level exams .
over the years this system has come in for its share of criticism for its simplicity .
but that is also its strength : it's easy for readers to understand , and to do the arithmetic for their own schools if they'd like .
ranking schools is always controversial , and this year a group of 38 superintendentsfrom five states wrote to ask that their schools be excluded from the calculation .
" it is impossible to know which high schools are ' the best ' in the nation , " their letter read .
in part .
" determining whether different schools do or don't offer a high quality of education requires a look at man different measures , including students ' overall academic accomplishments and their subsequent performance in college .
and taking into consideration the unique needs of their communities . "
in the end , the superintendents agreed to provide the data we sought , which is , after all , public information .
there is , in our view , no real dispute here , we are all seeking the same thing , which is schools that better serve our children and our nation by encouraging students to tackle tough subjects under the guidance of gifted teachers .
and if we keep working toward that goal , someday , perhaps a list won't be necessary .
why integrity matters
what is integrity ?
the key to integrity is consistency - not only setting high personal standards for oneself ( honesty , responsibility , respect for others , fairness ) but also living up to those standards each and every day .
one who has integrity is bound by and follows moral and ethical standards even when making life's hard choices , choices which may be clouded by stress , pressure to succeed , or temptation .
what happens if we lie , cheat , steal , or violate other ethical standards ?
we feel disappointed in ourselves and ashamed .
but a lapse of integrity also affects our relationships with others .
trust is essential in any important relationship , whether personal or professional .
who can trust someone who is dishonest or unfair ?
thus integrity must be one of our most important goals .
risky business
we are each responsible for our own decisions , even if the decision , making process has been undermined by stress or peer pressure .
the real test of character is whether we can learn from our mistake , by understanding why we acted as we did and then exploring ways to avoid similar problems in the future .
making ethical decisions is a critical part of avoiding future problems .
we must learn to recognize risks , because if we can't see the risks we're taking , we can't make responsible choices .
to identify risks , we need to know the rules and be aware of the facts .
for example , one who doesn't know the rules a about plagiarism may accidentally use words or ideas without giving proper credit or one who fails to keep careful research notes may unintentionally fail to quote and cite sources as required .
but the fact that such a violation is " unintentional " does not excuse the misconduct , ignorance is not a defense .
" but everybody does it "
most people who get in trouble do know the rules and facts but manage to fool themselves about the risks they're taking by using excuses : " everyone else does it . "
" i'm not hurting anyone " , or " i really need this grade . "
excuses can get very elaborate : " i know i'm look at another's exam , even though i'm supposed to keep my eyes on my own paper , but that's not cheating because i ’ m just checking my answers , not copying . "
we must be honest about our actions and avoid excuses , if we fool ourselves into believing we're not doing anything wrong , we can't see the real choice we're making - and that leads to bad decisions .
to avoid fooling yourself , watch out for excuses and try this test : ask how you would feel if your actions were public and anyone could be watching over yore shoulder .
if you'd rather hide your actions , that's an indication that you're taking a risk and rationalizing it to yourself .
evaluating risks
to decide whether a risk is worth taking , you must examine the consequences , in the future as well as right now , negative as well as positive , and to others as well as to yourself .
those who take risks they later regret usually focus on immolate benefits and simply haven't considered what might go wrong .
the consequences of getting caught are serious and may include a " o " on a test or assignment , an " f " in the class , suspension or dismissal from school and a ruined reputation .
in fact , when you break a role or law , you lose control over your life and give others the power to impose punishment that you have no control over .
this is an extremely vulnerable position .
there may be some matters of life and death or highest principle , which might justify such a risk , but there aren't many things that fall in this category .
getting away with it - or not
those who don't get caught pay an even higher price .
a cheater doesn't learn from the test , which deprives him her of an education .
cheating undermines confidence and independence : the cheater is a fraud , and knows that without dishonesty , he / she would have failed .
cheating destroys self-respect and integrity , leaving the cheater ashamed , guilty and afraid of getting caught .
worst of all , a cheater who doesn't get caught the first time usually cheats again , not only because he / she is farther behind , but also because it seems " easier . "
this slippery slope of eroding ethics and bigger risks leads only to disaster .
eventually , the cheater gets caught , and the later he / she gets caught , the worse the consequences .
cheating hurts other , too
cheaters often feel invisible , as if their actions " don't count " and don't really hurt anyone .
but individual choices have an intense cumulative effect .
cheating can spread like a disease .
recent statistics suggest 30 ％ or more of college students cheat .
if a class is graded on a curve , cheating hurts others ' grades .
even if there is no curve , cheating " poisons " the classroom , and others may feel pressured to join in .
( " if i don't cheat i can't compete with those who do " ) cheating also has a destructive impact on teachers .
the real reward of goof teaching is seeing students learn .
but a cheater says .
" i'm not interested in what you're trying to teach , all i care about is stealing a grade , regardless of the effect on others . "
the end result is a destructive attack on the quality of your education .
finally , cheating can hurt the reputation of the university and harm those who worked hard for their degree .
why integrity marten
if cheating becomes the norm , then we are in big trouble .
we must rely on the honesty and good faith of others , if not , we couldn't put money in the bank , buy food , clothing , or medicine from others , drive across a bridge , get on a plane , go to the dentist--the list is endless .
there are many examples of the vast harm that is caused when individuals forget or ignore the effect their dishonesty can have .
the savings and loan scandal , the stock market and junk bond swindles , and , of course , watergate , have undermined the faith of many americans in the integrity of political and economic leaders and society as a whole .
such incidents take a tremendous toll on our nation's economy and our individual well-being .
for example , but for the savings and loan debacle , there might be funds available to reduce the national debt and pay for education .
in sum , we all have a common stake in our school , our community , and our society .
our actions do matter .
it is essential that we act with integrity in order to build the kind of world in which we want to live .
boys ' schools are the perfect place to teach young men to express their emotions and involve them in activities such as art , dance and music .
far from the traditional image of a culture of aggressive masculinity , the absence of girls gives boys the chance to develop without pressure to conform to a stereotype .
a us study says .
boys at single-sex schools were said to be more likely to get involved in cultural and artistic activities that helped develop their emotional expressiveness , rather than feeling they had to conform to the " boy code " of hiding their emotions to be a " real man " .
the findings of the study so against received wisdom that boys do better when taught alongside girls .
tony little , headmaster of eton , warned that boys were being faded by the british education system because it had become too focused on girls .
he criticized teachers for failing to recognize that boys are actually more emotional than girls .
the research argued that boys often perform badly in mixed schools because they become discouraged when their female peers do better earlier in speaking and reading skills .
but in single-sex schools teachers can tailor lessons to boys ' learning style , letting them move around the classroom and getting them to compete in teams to prevent boredom , wrote the study's author , abigail james , of the university of virginia .
teachers could encourage boys to enjoy reading and writing with " boy-focused " approaches such as themes and characters that appeal to them .
because boys generally have more acute vision learn best through touch , and are physically more active , they need to be given " hands-on " lessons where they are allowed to walk around .
" boys in mixed schools view classical music as feminine and prefer the modem genre in which violence and sexism are major themes , " james wrote .
single-sex education also made it less likely that boys would feel they had to conform to a stereotype that men should be " masterful and in charge " in relationships .
" in mixed schools boys feel compelled to act like men before they understand themselves well enough to know what that means , " the study reported .
it's an annual argument .
do we or do we not go on holiday ?
my partner says no because the boiler could go , or the roof fall off and we have no savings to save us .
i say you only live once and we work hard and what's the point if you can't go on holiday .
the joy of a recession means no argument next year - we just won't go .
since money is known to be one of the things most likely to bring a relationship to its knees , we should be grateful .
for many families the recession means more than not booking a holiday a yougov poll of 2 , 000 people found 22 % said they were arguing more with their partners because of concerns about money .
what's less clear is whether divorce and separation rates rise in a recession - financial pressures mean couples argue more but make splitting up less affordable .
a recent research shows arguments about money were especially damaging to couples .
disputes were characterized by intense verbal aggression , tended to be repeated and not resolved and made men , more than women , extremely angry .
kim stephenson , an occupational psychologist , believes money is such a big deal because of what it symbolizes , which may be different things to men and women .
" people can say the same things about money but have different ideas of what it's for . "
he explains .
" they'll say it's to save to spend , for security , for freedom , to show someone you love them . "
he says men are more likely to see money as a way of buying status and of showing their parents that they've achieved something .
" the biggest problem is that couples assume each other know what's going on with their finances , but they don't .
there seems to be more of a taboo about talking about money than about death .
but you both need to know what you're doing , who's paying what into the joint account and how much you keep separately .
in a healthy relationship , you don't have to agree about money , but you have to talk about it . "
british cuisine : the best of old and new
british cuisine has come of age in recent years as chefs combine the best of old and new .
why does british food have a reputation for being so bad ?
because it is bad !
those are not the most encouraging words to hear just before eating lunch at one of hong kong's smartest british restaurants , alfie's by kee , but head chef neil tomes has more to say .
" the past 15 years or so have been a noticeable period of improvement for food in england , " the english chef says , citing the trend in british cuisine for better ingredients , preparation and cooking methods , and more appealing presentation .
chefs such as delia smith , nigel slater , jamie oliver and gordon ramsay made the public realise that cooking - and eating - didn't have to be a boring thing .
and now , most of the british public is familiar even with the extremes of heston blumenthaps molecular gastronomy , a form of cooking that employs scientific methods to create the perfect dish .
" it's no longer the case that the common man in england is embarrassed to show he knows about food , " tomes says .
there was plenty of room for improvement .
the problems with the nation's cuisine can be traced back to the second world war .
before the war , much of britain's food was imported and when german u-boats began attacking ships bringing food to the country , britain went on rations .
" as rationing came to an end in the 1950s , technology picked up and was used to mass-produce food , " tomes says .
" and by then people were just happy to have a decent quantity of food in their kitchens . "
they weren't looking for cured meats , organic produce or beautiful presentation ; they were looking for whatever they could get their hands on , and this prioritisation of quantity over quality prevailed for decades , meaning a generation was brought up with food that couldn't compete with neighbouring france , italy , belgium or spain .
before star chefs such as oliver began making cooking fashionable , it was hard to find a restaurant in london that was open after 9pm .
but in recent years the capital's culinary scene has developed to the point that it is now confident of its ability to please the tastes of any international visitor .
with the opening of alfie's in april , and others such as the pawn , two years ago , modern british food has made its way to hong kong .
" with british food , i think that hong kong restaurants are keeping up , " says david tamlyn , the welsh executive chef at the pawn in wan chai .
" hong kong diners are extremely responsive to new ideas or presentations , which is good news for new dishes . "
chefs agree that diners in hong kong are embracing the modern british trend .
some restau ­ rants are modifying the recipes of british dishes to breathe new life into the classics , while others are using better quality ingredients but remaining true to british traditions and tastes .
tamlyn is in the second camp .
" we select our food very particularly .
we use us beef , new zealand lamb and for our custards we use bird's custard powder , " tamlyn says .
" some restaurants go for custard made fresh with eggs , sugar and cream , but british custard is different , and we stay true to that . "
matthew hill , senior manager at the two-year-old soho restaurant yorkshire pudding , also uses better ingredients as a means of improving dishes .
" there are a lot of existing perceptions about british food and so we can't alter these too much .
we're a traditional british restaurant so there are some staples that will remain essentially unchanged . "
these traditional dishes include fish and chips , steak and kidney pie and large pieces of roasted meats .
at alfie's , the newest of the british restaurants in town and perhaps the most gentlemen's club-like in design , neil tomes explains his passion for provenance .
" britain has started to become really proud of the food it's producing .
it has excellent organic farms , beautifully crafted cheeses , high-quality meats . "
however , the british don't have a history of exporting their foodstuffs , which makes it difficult for restaurants in hong kong to source authentic ingredients .
" we can get a lot of our ingredients once a week from the uk , " tamlyn explains .
" but there is also pressure to buy local and save on food miles , which means we take our vegetables from the local markets , and there are a lot that work well with british staples . "
the phoenix , in mid-levels , offers the widest interpretation of " british cuisine " , while still trying to maintain its soul .
the gastro-pub has existed in various locations in hong kong since 2002 .
singaporean head chef tommy teh kum chai offers daily specials on a blackboard , rather than sticking to a menu .
this enables him to reinterpret british cuisine depending on what is avail ­ able in the local markets .
" we use a lot of ingredients that people wouldn't perhaps associate as british , but are pre ­ sented in a british way .
bell peppers stuffed with couscous , alongside ratatouille , is a very popular dish . "
although the ingredients may not strike diners as being traditional , they can be found in dishes across britain .
even the traditional chefs are aware of the need to adapt to local tastes and customs , while maintaining the britishness of their cuisine .
at yorkshire pudding , hill says that his staff asks diners whether they would like to share their meals .
small dishes , shared meals and " mixing it up " is not something commonly done in britain , but yorkshire pudding will bring full dishes to the table and offer individual plates for each diner .
" that way , people still get the presentation of the dishes as they were designed , but can carve them up however they like , " hill says .
this practice is also popular at the pawn , although largely for rotisseries , tamlyn says .
" some tables will arrive on a sunday , order a whole chicken and a shoulder of lamb or a baby pig , and just stay for hours enjoying everything we bring out for them . "
some british traditions are too sacred to mess with , however , tomes says .
" i'd never change a full english breakfast . "
several recent studies have found that being randomly assigned to a roommate of another race can lead to increased tolerance but also to a greater likelihood of conflict .
recent reports found that lodging with a student of a different race may decrease prejudice and compel students to engage in more ethnically diverse friendships .
an ohio state university study also found that black students living with a white roommate saw higher academic success throughout their college careers .
researchers believe this may be caused by social pressure .
in a new york times article , sam boakye – the only black student on his freshman year floor - said that " if you're surrounded by whites , you have something to prove . "
researchers also observed problems resulting from pairing interracial students in residences .
according to two recent studies , randomly assigned roommates of different races are more likely to experience conflicts so strained that one roommate will move out .
an indiana university study found that interracial roommates were three times as likely as two white roommates to no longer live together by the end of the semester .
grace kao , a professor at penn said she was not surprised by the findings .
" this may be the first time that some of these students have interacted , and lived , with someone of a different race , " she said .
at penn , students are not asked to indicate race when applying for housing .
" one of the great things about freshman housing is that , with some exceptions , the process throws you together randomly , " said undergraduate assembly chairman alec webley .
" this is the definition of integration . "
" i've experienced roommate conflicts between interracial students that have both broken down stereotypes and reinforced stereotypes , " said one penn resident advisor ( ra ) .
the ra of two years added that while some conflicts " provided more multicultural acceptance and melding , " there were also " jarring cultural confrontations . "
the ra said that these conflicts have also occurred among roommates of the same race .
kao said she cautions against forming any generalizations based on any one of the studies , noting that more background characteristics of the students need to be studied and explained .
global warming is causing more than 300,000 deaths and about $ 125 billion in economic losses each year , according to a report by the global humanitarian forum , an organization led by annan , the former united nations secretary general .
the report , to be released friday , analyzed data and existing studies of health , disaster , population and economic trends .
it found that human-influenced climate change was raising the global death rates from illnesses including malnutrition and heat-related health problems .
but even before its release , the report drew criticism from some experts on climate and risk , who questioned its methods and conclusions .
along with the deaths , the report said that the lives of 325 million people , primarily in poor countries , were being seriously affected by climate change .
it projected that the number would double by 2030 .
roger pielke jr . , a political scientist at the university of colorado , boulder , who studies disaster trends , said the forum's report was " a methodological embarrassment " because there was no way to distinguish deaths or economic losses related to human-driven global warming amid the much larger losses resulting from the growth in populations and economic development in vulnerable regions .
dr . pielke said that " climate change is an important problem requiring our utmost attention . "
but the report , he said , " will harm the cause for action on both climate change and disasters because it is so deeply flawed . "
however , soren andreasen , a social scientist at dalberg global development partners who supervised the writing of the report , defended it , saying that it was clear that the numbers were rough estimates .
he said the report was aimed at world leaders , who will meet in copenhagen in december to negotiate a new international climate treaty .
in a press release describing the report , mr . annan stressed the need for the negotiations to focus on increasing the flow of money from rich to poor regions to help reduce their vulnerability to climate hazards while still curbing the emissions of the heat-trapping gases .
more than 90 % of the human and economic losses from climate change are occurring in poor countries , according to the report .
a grassroots remedy
most of us spend our lives seeking the natural world .
to this end , we walk the dog , play golf , go fishing , sit in the garden , drink outside rather than inside the pub , have a picnic , live in the suburbs , go to the seaside , buy a weekend place in the country .
the most popular leisure activity in britain is going for a walk .
and when joggers jog , they don ’ t run the streets .
every one of them instinctively heads to the park or the river .
it is my profound belief that not only do we all need nature , but we all seek nature , whether we know we are doing so or not .
but despite this , our children are growing up nature-deprived .
i spent my boyhood climbing trees on streatham common , south london .
these days , children are robbed of these ancient freedoms , due to problems like crime , traffic , the loss of the open spaces and odd new perceptions about what is best for children , that is to say , things that can be bought , rather than things that can be found .
the truth is to be found elsewhere .
a study in the us : families had moved to better housing and the children were assessed for adhd — attention deficit hyperactivity disorder .
those whose accommodation had more natural views showed an improvement of 19 % ; those who had the same improvement in material surroundings but no nice view improved just 4 % .
a study in sweden indicated that kindergarten children who could play in a natural environment had less illness and greater physical ability than children used only to a normal playground .
a us study suggested that when a school gave children access to a natural environment , academic levels were raised across the entire school .
another study found that children play differently in a natural environment .
in playgrounds , children create a hierarchy based on physical abilities , with the tough ones taking the lead .
but when a grassy area was planted with bushes , the children got much more into fantasy play , and the social hierarchy was now based on imagination and creativity .
most bullying is found in schools where there is a tarmac playground ; the least bullying is in a natural area that the children are encouraged to explore .
this reminds me unpleasantly of sunnyhill school in streatham , with its harsh tarmac , where i used to hang about in corners fantasising about wildlife .
but children are frequently discouraged from involvement with natural spaces , for health and safety reasons , for fear that they might get dirty or that they might cause damage .
so , instead , the damage is done to the children themselves : not to their bodies but to their souls .
one of the great problems of modern childhood is adhd , now increasingly and expensively treated with drugs .
yet one study after another indicates that contact with nature gives huge benefits to adhd children .
however , we spend money on drugs rather than on green places .
the life of old people is measurably better when they have access to nature .
the increasing emphasis for the growing population of old people is in quality rather than quantity of years .
and study after study finds that a garden is the single most important thing in finding that quality .
in wider and more difficult areas of life , there is evidence to indicate that natural surroundings improve all kinds of things .
even problems with crime and aggressive behaviour are reduced when there is contact with the natural world .
dr william bird , researcher from the royal society for the protection of birds , states in his study , " a natural environment can reduce violent behaviour because its restorative process helps reduce anger and impulsive behaviour . "
wild places need encouraging for this reason , no matter how small their contribution .
we tend to look on nature conservation as some kind of favour that human beings are granting to the natural world .
the error here is far too deep : not only do humans need nature for themselves , but the very idea that humanity and the natural world are separable things is profoundly damaging .
human beings are a species of mammals .
for seven million years they lived on the planet as part of nature .
our ancestral selves miss the natural world and long for contact with non-human life .
anyone who has patted a dog , stroked a cat , sat under a tree with a pint of beer , given or received a bunch of flowers or chosen to walk through the park on a nice day , understands that .
we need the wild world .
it is essential to our well-being , our health , our happiness .
without the wild world we are not more but less civilised .
without other living things around us we are less than human .
five ways to find harmony with the natural world
walk : break the rhythm of permanently being under a roof .
get off a stop earlier , make a circuit of the park at lunchtime , walk the child to and from school , get a dog , feel yourself moving in moving air , look , listen , absorb .
sit : take a moment , every now and then , to be still in an open space .
in the garden , anywhere that ’ s not in the office , anywhere out of the house , away from the routine .
sit under a tree , look at water , feel refreshed , ever so slightly renewed .
drink : the best way to enjoy the natural world is by yourself ; the second best way is in company .
take a drink outside with a good person , a good gathering : talk with the sun and the wind with birdsong for background .
learn : expand your boundaries .
learn five species of bird , five butterflies , five trees , five bird songs .
that way , you see and hear more : and your mind responds gratefully to the greater amount of wildness in your life .
travel : the places you always wanted to visit : by the seaside , in the country , in the hills .
take a weekend break , a day-trip , get out there and do it : for the scenery , for the way through the woods , for the birds , for the bees .
go somewhere special and bring specialness home .
it lasts forever , after all .
what determines the kind of person you are ?
what factors make you more or less bold , intelligent , or able to read a map ?
all of these are influenced by the interaction of your genes and the environment in which you were 47 .
the study of how genes and environment interact to influence 48 activity is known as behavioral genetics .
behavioral genetics has made important 49 to the biological revolution , providing information about the extent to which biology influences mind , brain and behavior .
any research that suggests that 50 to perform certain behaviors are based in biology is controversial .
who wants to be told that there are limitations to what you can 51 based on something that is beyond your control , such as your genes ?
it is easy to accept that genes control physical characteristics such as sex , race and eye color .
but can genes also determine whether people will get divorced , how 52 they are , or what career they are likely to choose ?
a concern of psychological scientists is the 53 to which all of these characteristics are influenced by nature and nurture , by genetic makeup and the environment .
increasingly , science 54 that genes lay the groundwork for many human traits .
from this perspective , people are born 55 like undeveloped photographs : the image is already captured , but the way it 56 appears can vary based on the development process .
however , the basic picture is there from the beginning .
it is pretty much a one-way street .
while it may be common for university researchers to try their luck in the commercial world , there is very little traffic in the opposite direction .
pay has always been the biggest deterrent , as people with families often feel they cannot afford the drop in salary when moving to a university job .
for some industrial scientists , however , the attractions of academia outweigh any financial considerations .
helen lee took a 70 % cut in salary when she moved from a senior post in abbott laboratories to a medical department at the university of cambridge .
her main reason for returning to academia mid-career was to take advantage of the greater freedom to choose research questions .
some areas of inquiry have few prospects of a commercial return , and lee ’ s is one of them .
the impact of a salary cut is probably less severe for a scientist in the early stages of a career .
guy grant , now a research associate at the unilever centre for molecular informatics at the university of cambridge , spent two years working for a pharmaceutical company before returning to university as a post-doctoral researcher .
he took a 30 % salary cut but felt it worthwhile for the greater intellectual opportunities .
higher up the ladder , where a pay cut is usually more significant , the demand for scientists with a wealth of experience in industry is forcing universities to make the transition to academia more attractive , according to lee .
industrial scientists tend to receive training that academics do not , such as how to build a multidisciplinary team , manage budgets and negotiate contracts .
they are also well placed to bring something extra to the teaching side of an academic role that will help students get a job when they graduate , says lee , perhaps experience in manufacturing practice or product development .
" only a small number of undergraduates will continue in an academic career .
so someone leaving university who already has the skills needed to work in an industrial lab has far more potential in the job market than someone who has spent all their time on a narrow research project . "
being sociable looks like a good way to add years to your life .
relationships with family , friends , neighbours , even pets , will all do the trick , but the biggest longevity boost seems to come from marriage or an equivalent relationship .
the effect was first noted in 1858 by william farr , who wrote that widows and widowers were at a much higher risk of dying than their married peers .
studies since then suggest that marriage could add as much as seven years to a man ’ s life and two to a woman ’ s .
the effect holds for all causes of death , whether illness , accident or self-harm .
even if the odds are stacked against you , marriage can more than compensate .
linda waite of the university of chicago has found that a married older man with heart disease can expect to live nearly four years longer than an unmarried man with a healthy heart .
likewise , a married man who smokes more than a pack a day is likely to live as long as a divorced man who doesn ’ t smoke .
there ’ s a flip side , however , as partners are more likely to become ill or die in the couple of years following their spouse ’ s death , and caring for a spouse with mental disorder can leave you with some of the same severe problems .
even so , the odds favour marriage .
in a 30 - year study of more than 10,000 people , nicholas christakis of harvard medical school describes how all kinds of social networks have similar effects .
so how does it work ?
the effects are complex , affected by socio-economic factors , health-service provision , emotional support and other more physiological mechanisms .
for example , social contact can boost development of the brain and immune system , leading to better health and less chance of depression later in life .
people in supportive relationships may handle stress better .
then there are the psychological benefits of a supportive partner .
a life partner , children and good friends are all recommended if you aim to live to 100 .
the ultimate social network is still being mapped out , but christakis says : " people are interconnected , so their health is interconnected . "
caught in the web a few months ago , it wasn't unusual for 47 - year-old carla toebe to spend 15 hours per day online .
she'd wake up early , turn on her laptop and chat on internet dating sites and instant-messaging programs – leaving her bed for only brief intervals .
her household bills piled up , along with the dishes and dirty laundry , but it took near-constant complaints from her four daughters before she realized she had a problem .
" i was starting to feel like my whole world was falling apart – kind of slipping into a depression , " said carla .
" i knew that if i didn't get off the dating sites , i'd just keep going , " detaching herself further from the outside world .
toebe's conclusion : she felt like she was " addicted " to the internet .
she's not alone .
concern about excessive internet use isn't new .
as far back as 1995 , articles in medical journals and the establishment of a pennsylvania treatment center for overusers generated interest in the subject .
there's still no consensus on how much time online constitutes too much or whether addiction is possible .
but as reliance on the web grows , there are signs that the question is getting more serious attention : last month , a study published in cns spectrums claimed to be the first large-scale look at excessive internet use .
the american psychiatric association may consider listing internet addiction in the next edition of its diagnostic manual .
and scores of online discussion boards have popped up on which people discuss negative experiences tied to too much time on the web .
" there's no question that there're people who're seriously in trouble because they're overdoing their internet involvement , " said psychiatrist ivan goldberg .
goldberg calls the problem a disorder rather than a true addiction .
jonathan bishop , a researcher in wales specializing in online communities , is more skeptical .
" the internet is an environment , " he said .
" you can't be addicted to the environment . "
bishop describes the problem as simply a matter of priorities , which can be solved by encouraging people to prioritize other life goals and plans in place of time spent online .
the new cns spectrums study was based on results of a nationwide telephone survey of more than 2,500 adults .
like the 2005 survey , this one was conducted by stanford university researchers.about 6 % of respondents reported that " their relationships suffered because of excessive internet use . "
about 9 % attempted to conceal " nonessential internet use , " and nearly 4 % reported feeling " preoccupied by the internet when offline . "
about 8 % said they used the internet as a way to escape problems , and almost 14 % reported they " found it hard to stay away from the internet for several days at a time . "
" the internet problem is still in its infancy , " said elias aboujaoude , a stanford professor .
no single online activity is to blame for excessive use , he said .
" they're online in chat rooms , checking e-mail , or writing blogs .
[ the problem is ] not limited to porn or gambling " websites .
excessive internet use should be defined not by the number of hours spent online but " in terms of losses , " said maressa orzack , a harvard university professor .
" if it's a loss [ where ] you're not getting to work , and family relationships are breaking down as a result , then it's too much . "
since the early 1990s , several clinics have been established in the u . s . to treat heavy internet users .
they include the center for internet addiction recovery and the center for internet behavior .
the website for orzack's center lists the following among the psychological symptoms of computer addiction : having a sense of well-being or excitement while at the computer .
longing for more and more time at the computer .
neglect of family and friends .
feeling empty , depressed or irritable when not at the computer .
lying to employers and family about activities .
inability to stop the activity .
problems with school or job .
physical symptoms listed include dry eyes , backaches , skipping meals , poor personal hygiene and sleep disturbances .
people who struggle with excessive internet use maybe depressed or have other mood disorders , orzack said .
when she discusses internet habits with her patients , they often report that being online offers a " sense of belonging , and escape , excitement [ and ] fun , " she said .
" some people say relief … because they find themselves so relaxed . "
some parts of the internet seem to draw people in more than others .
internet gamers spend countless hours competing in games against people from all over the world .
one such game , called world of warcraft , is cited on many sites by posters complaining of a " gaming addiction . "
andrew heidrich , an education network administrator from sacramento , plays world of warcraft for about two to four hours every other night , but that's nothing compared with the 40 to 60 hours a week he spent playing online games when he was in college .
he cut back only after a full-scale family intervention , in which relatives told him he'd gained weight .
" there's this whole culture of competition that sucks people in " with online gaming , said heidrich , now a father of two .
" people do it at the expense of everything that was a constant in their lives . "
heidrich now visits websites that discuss gaming addiction regularly " to remind myself to keep my love for online games in check . "
toebe also regularly visits a site where posters discuss internet overuse .
in august , when she first realized she had a problem , she posted a message on a yahoo internet addiction group with the subject line : " i have an internet addiction . "
" i'm self-employed and need the internet for my work , but i'm failing to accomplish my work , to take care of my home , to give attention to my children , " she wrote in a message sent to the group .
" i have no money or insurance to get professional help ; i can't even pay my mortgage and face losing everything . "
since then , toebe said , she has kept her promise to herself to cut back on her internet use .
" i have a boyfriend now , and i'm not interested in online dating , " she said by phone last week .
" it's a lot better now . "
you never see him , but they're with you every time you fly .
they record where you are going , how fast you're traveling and whether everything on your airplane is functioning normally .
their ability to withstand almost any disaster makes them seem like something out of a comic book.they ' re known as the black box .
when planes fall from the sky , as a yemeni airliner did on its way to comoros islands in the india ocean june 30 , 2009 , the black box is the best bet for identifying what went wrong .
so when a french submarine detected the device's homing signal five days later , the discovery marked a huge step toward determining the cause of a tragedy in which 152 passengers were killed .
in 1958 , australian scientist david warren developed a flight-memory recorder that would track basic information like altitude and direction .
that was the first mode for a black box , which became a requirement on all u . s . commercial flights by 1960 .
early models often failed to withstand crashes , however , so in 1965 the device was completely redesigned and moved to the rear of the plane – the area least subject to impact – from its original position in the landing wells .
the same year , the federal aviation authority required that the boxes , which were never actually black , be painted orange or yellow to aid visibility .
modern airplanes have two black boxes : a voice recorder , which tracks pilots ' conversations , and a flight-data recorder , which monitors fuel levels , engine noises and other operating functions that help investigators reconstruct the aircraft's final moments .
placed in an insulated case and surrounded by a quarter-inch-thick panels of stainless steel , the boxes can withstand massive force and temperatures up to 2,000 ℉ .
when submerged , they're also able to emit signals from depths of 20,000 ft .
experts believe the boxes from air france flight 447 , which crashed near brazil on june 1,2009 , are in water nearly that deep , but statistics say they're still likely to turn up .
in the approximately 20 deep-sea crashes over the past 30 years , only one plane's black boxes were never recovered .
the $ 11 billion self-help industry is built on the idea that you should turn negative thoughts like " i never do anything right " into positive ones like " i can succeed . "
but was positive thinking advocate norman vincent peale right ?
is there power in positive thinking ?
researchers in canada just published a study in the journal psychological science that says trying to get people to think more positively can actually have the opposite effect : it can simply highlight how unhappy they are .
the study's authors , joanne wood and john lee of the university of waterloo and elaine perunovic of the university of new brunswick , begin by citing older research showing that when people get feedback which they believe is overly positive , they actually feel worse , not better .
if you tell your dim friend that he has the potential of an einstein , you're just underlining his faults .
in one 1990s experiment , a team including psychologist joel cooper of princeton asked participants to write essays opposing funding for the disabled .
when the essayists were later praised for their sympathy , they felt even worse about what they had written .
in this experiment , wood , lee and perunovic measured 68 students ' self-esteem .
the participants were then asked to write down their thoughts and feelings for four minutes .
every 15 seconds , one group of students heard a bell .
when it rang , they were supposed to tell themselves , " i am lovable . "
those with low self-esteem didn't feel better after the forced self-affirmation .
in fact , their moods turned significantly darker than those of members of the control group , who weren't urged to think positive thoughts .
the paper provides support for newer forms of psychotherapy that urge people to accept their negative thoughts and feelings rather than fight them .
in the fighting , we not only often fail but can make things worse .
meditation techniques , in contrast , can teach people to put their shortcomings into a larger , more realistic perspective .
call it the power of negative thinking .
colleges taking another look at value of merit-based aid
good grades and high tests scores still matter — a lot — to many colleges as they award financial aid .
but with low-income students projected to make up an ever-larger share of the college-bound population in coming years , some schools are re-examining whether that aid , typically known as " merit aid " , is the most effective use of precious institutional dollars .
george washington university in washington , d . c . , for example , said last week that it would cut the value of its average merit scholarships by about one-third and reduce the number of recipients , pouring the savings , about $ 2.5 million , into need-based aid .
allegheny college in meadville , pa . , made a similar decision three years ago .
now , hamilton college in clinton , n . y . , says it will phase out merit scholarships altogether .
no current merit-aid recipients will lose their scholarships , but need-based aid alone will be awarded beginning with students entering in fall 2008 .
not all colleges offer merit aid ; generally , the more selective a school , the less likely it is to do so .
harvard and princeton , for example , offer generous need-based packages , but many families who don ’ t meet need eligibilityhave been willing to pay whatever they must for a big-name school .
for small regional colleges that struggle just to fill seats , merit aid can be an important revenue-builder because many recipients still pay enough tuition dollars over and above the scholarship amount to keep the institution running .
but for rankings-conscious schools in between , merit aid has served primarily as a tool to recruit top students and to improve their academic profits .
" they ’ re trying to buy students , " says skidmore college economist sandy baum .
studies show merit aid also tends to benefit disproportionately students who could afford to enroll without it .
" as we look to the future , we see a more pressing need to invest in need-based aid , " says monica inzer , dean of admission and financial aid at hamilton , which has offered merit scholarships for 10 years .
during that time , it rose in us news & world report ’ s ranking of the best liberal arts colleges , from 25 to 17 .
merit aid , which benefited about 75 students a year , or about 4 % of its student body , at a cost of about $ 1 million a year , " served us well , " inzer says , but " to be discounting the price for families that don ’ t need financial aid doesn ’ t feel right any more . "
need-based aid remains by far the largest share of all student aid , which includes state , federal and institutional grants .
but merit aid , offered primarily by schools and states , is growing faster , both overall and at the institutional level .
between 1995-96 and 2003-04 , institutional merit aid alone increased 212 % , compared with 47 % for need-based grants .
at least 15 states also offer merit aid , typically in a bid to enroll top students in the state ’ s public institutions .
but in recent years , a growing chorusof critics has begun pressuring schools to drop the practice .
recent decisions by hamilton and others may be " a sign that people are starting to realize that there ’ s this destructive competition going on , " says baum , co-author of a recent college report that raises concerns about the role of institutional aid not based on need .
david laird , president of the minnesota private college council , says many of his schools would like to reduce their merit aid but fear that in doing so , they would lose top students to their competitors .
" no one can take one-sided action , " says laird , who is exploring whether to seek an exemptionfrom federal anti-trust laws so member colleges can discuss how they could jointly reduce merit aid , " this is a merry-go-round that ’ s going very fast , and none of the institutions believe they can sustain the risks of trying to break away by themselves . "
a complicating factor is that merit aid has become so popular with middle-income families , who don ’ t qualify for need-based aid , that many have come to depend on it .
and , as tuitions continue to increase , the line between merit and need blurs .
that ’ s one reason allegheny college doesn ’ t plan to drop merit aid entirely .
" we still believe in rewarding superior achievements and know that these top students truly value the scholarship , " says scott friedhoff , allegheny ’ s vice president for enrollment .
emory university in atlanta , which boasts a $ 4.7 billion endowment , meanwhile , is taking another approach .
this year , it announced it would eliminate loans for needy students and cap them for middle-income families .
at the same time , it would expand its 28 - year-old merit program .
" yeah , we ’ re playing the merit game , " acknowledges tom lancaster , associate dean for undergraduate education .
but it has its strong point , too , he says .
" the fact of the matter is , it ’ s not just about the lowest-income people .
it ’ s the average american middle-class family who ’ s being priced out of the market . "
* a few words about merit-based aid :
merit-based aid is aid offered to students who achieve excellence in a given area , and is generally known as academic , athletic and artistic merit scholarships .
academic merit scholarships are based on students ’ grades , gpa and overall academic performance during high school .
they are typically meant for students going straight to college right after high school .
however , there are scholarships for current college students with exceptional grades as well .
these merit scholarships usually help students pay tuition bills , and they can be renewed each year as long as the recipients continue to qualify .
in some cases , students may need to be recommended by their school or a teacher as part of the qualification process .
athletic merit scholarships are meant for students that excelin sports of any kind , from football to track and field events .
recommendation for these scholarships is required , since exceptional athletic performance has to be recognized by a coach or a referee .
applicants need to send in a tape containing their best performance .
artistic merit scholarships require that applicants excel in a given artistic area .
this generally includes any creative field such as art , design , fashion , music , dance or writing .
applying for artistic merit scholarships usually requires that students submit a portfolioof some sort , whether that includes a collection of artwork , a recording of a musical performance or a video of them dancing .
throughout this long , tense election , everyone has focused on the presidential candidates and how they ’ ll change america .
rightly so , but selfishly , i ’ m more fascinated by michelle obama and what she might be able to do , not just for this country , but for me as an african-american woman .
as the potential first lady , she would have the world ’ s attention .
and that means that for the first time people will have a chance to get up close and personal with the type of african-american woman they so rarely see .
usually , the lives of black women go largely unexamined .
the prevailing theory seems to be that we ’ re all hot-tempered single mothers who can ’ t keep a man .
even in the world of make-believe , black women still can ’ t escape the stereotype of being eye-rolling , oversexed females raised by our never-married , alcoholic mothers .
these images have helped define the way all women are viewed , including michelle obama .
before she ever gets the chance to commit to a cause , charity or foundation as first lady , her most urgent and perhaps most complicated duty may be simple to be herself .
it won ’ t be easy .
because few mainstream publications have done in-depth features on regular african-american women , little is known about who we are , what we think and what we face on a regular basis .
for better or worse , michelle will represent us all .
just as she will have her critics , she will also have millions of fans who usually have little interest in the first lady .
many african-american blogs have written about what they ’ d like to see michelle bring to the white house — mainly showing the world that a black woman can support her man and raise a strong black family .
michelle will have to work to please everyone — an impossible task .
but for many african-american women like me , just a little of her poise , confidence and intelligence will go a long way in changing an image that ’ s been around for far too long .
when next year ’ s crop of high-school graduates arrive at oxford university in the fall of 2009 , they ’ ll be joined by a new face ; andrew hamilton , the 55 - year-old provost of yale , who ’ ll become oxford ’ s vice-chancellor — a position equivalent to university president in america .
hamilton isn ’ t the only educator crossing the atlantic .
schools in france , egypt , singapore , etc , have also recently made top-level hires from abroad .
higher education has become a big and competitive business nowadays , and like so many businesses , it ’ s gone global .
yet the talent flow isn ’ t universal .
high-level personnel tend to head in only one direction : outward from america .
the chief reason is that american schools don ’ t tend to seriously consider looking abroad .
for example , when the board of the university of colorado searched for a new president , it wanted a leader familiar with the state government , a major source of the university ’ s budget .
" we didn ’ t do any global consideration , " says patricia hayes , the board ’ s chair .
the board ultimately picked bruce benson , a 69 - year-old colorado businessman and political activist who is likely to do well in the main task of modern university presidents : fund-raising .
fund-raising is a distinctively american thing , since u . s . schools rely heavily on donations .
the fund-raising ability is largely a product of experience and necessity .
many european universities , meanwhile , are still mostly dependent on government funding .
but government support has failed to keep pace with rising student number .
the decline in government support has made funding-raising an increasing necessary ability among administrators and has hiring committees hungry for americans .
in the past few years , prominent schools around the world have joined the trend .
in 2003 , when cambridge university appointed alison richard , another former yale provost , as its vice-chancellor , the university publicly stressed that in her previous job she had overseen " a major strengthening of yale ’ s financial position . "
of course , fund-raising isn ’ t the only skill outsiders offer .
the globalization of education means more universities will be seeking heads with international experience of some kind of promote international programs and attract a global student body .
foreigners can offer a fresh perspective on established practices .
that ’ s enough , kids
it was a lovely day at the park and stella bianchi was enjoying the sunshine with her two children when a young boy , aged about four , approached her two-year-old son and pushed him to the ground .
" i ’ d watched him for a little while and my son was the fourth or fifth child he ’ d shoved , " she says . "
i went over to them , picked up my son , turned to the boy and said , firmly , ’ no , we don ’ t push , " what happened next was unexpected .
" the boy ’ s mother ran toward me from across the park , " stella says , " i thought she was coming over to apologize , but instead she started shouting at me for disciplining her child , all i did was let him know his behavior was unacceptable .
was i supposed to sit back while her kid did whatever he wanted , hurting other children in the process ? "
getting your own children to play nice is difficult enough .
dealing with other people ’ s children has become a minefield .
in my house , jumping on the sofa is not allowed .
in my sister ’ s house it ’ s encouraged .
for her , it ’ s about kids being kids : " if you can ’ t do it at three , when can you do it ? "
each of these philosophies is valid and , it has to be said , my son loves visiting his aunt ’ s house .
but i find myself saying " no " a lot when her kids are over at mine .
that ’ s ok between sisters but becomes dangerous territory when you ’ re talking to the children of friends or acquaintances .
" kids aren ’ t all raised the same , " agrees professor naomi white of monash university . "
but there is still an idea that they ’ re the property of the parent .
we see our children as an extension of ourselves , so if you ’ re saying that my child is behaving inappropriately , then that ’ s somehow a criticism of me . "
in those circumstances , it ’ s difficult to know whether to approach the child directly or the parent first .
there are two schools of thought .
" i ’ d go to the child first , " says andrew fuller , author of tricky kids .
usually a quiet reminder that ’ we don ’ t do that here ’ is enough .
kids nave finely tuned antennae for how to behave in different settings . "
he points out bringing it up with the parent first may make them feel neglectful , which could cause problems .
of course , approaching the child first can bring its own headaches , too .
this is why white recommends that you approach the parents first .
raise your concerns with the parents if they ’ re there and ask them to deal with it , " she says .
asked how to approach a parent in this situation , psychologist meredith fuller answers : " explain your needs as well as stressing the importance of the friendship .
preface your remarks with something like : ’ i know you ’ ll think i ’ m silly but in my house i don ’ t want … ’ "
when it comes to situations where you ’ re caring for another child , white is straightforward : " common sense must prevail .
if things don ’ t go well , then have a chat . "
there ’ re a couple of new grey areas .
physical punishment , once accepted from any adult , is no longer appropriate .
" a new set of considerations has come to the fore as part of the debate about how we handle children . "
for andrew fuller , the child-centric nature of our society has affected everyone : " the rules are different now from when today ’ s parents were growing up , " he says , " adults are scared of saying : ’ don ’ t swear ’ , or asking a child to stand up on a bus .
they ’ re worried that there will be conflict if they point these things out – either from older children , or their parents . "
he sees it as a loss of the sense of common public good and public courtesy , and says that adults suffer form it as much as child .
meredith fuller agrees : " a code of conduct is hard to create when you ’ re living in a world in which everyone is exhausted from overwork and lack of sleep , and a world in which nice people are perceived to finish last . "
" it ’ s about what i ’ m doing and what i need , " andrew fuller says .
" the days when a kid came home from school and said , " i got into trouble " .
and dad said , " you probably deserved it ’ .
are over .
now the parents are charging up to the school to have a go at teachers . "
this jumping to our children ’ s defense is part of what fuels the " walking on eggshells " feeling that surrounds our dealings with other people ’ s children .
you know that if you remonstrate with the child , you ’ re going to have to deal with the parent .
it ’ s admirable to be protective of our kids , but is it good ?
" children have to learn to negotiate the world on their own , within reasonable boundaries , " white says .
" i suspect that it ’ s only certain sectors of the population doing the running to the school – better – educated parents are probably more likely to be too involved . "
white believes our notions of a more child-centered , it ’ a way of talking about treating our children like commodities .
we ’ re centered on them but in ways that reflect positively on us .
we treat them as objects whose appearance and achievements are something we can be proud of , rather than serve the best interests of the children . "
one way over-worked , under-resourced parents show commitment to their children is to leap to their defence .
back at the park , bianchi ’ intervention on her son ’ behalf ended in an undignified exchange of insulting words with the other boy ’ mother .
as bianchi approached the park bench where she ’ d been sitting , other mums came up to her and congratulated her on taking a stand .
" apparently the boy had a longstanding reputation for bad behaviour and his mum for even worse behaviour if he was challenged . "
andrew fuller doesn ’ t believe that we should be afraid of dealing with other people ’ s kids .
" look at kids that aren ’ t your own as a potential minefield , " he says .
he recommends that we don ’ t stay silent over inappropriate behaviour , particularly with regular visitors .
if you are a male and you are reading this , congratulations : you are a survivor . according to statistics . you are more than twice as likely to die of skin cancer than a woman , and nine times more likely to die of aids .
assuming you make it to the end of your natural term , about 78 years for men in australia , you will die on average five years before a woman .
there are many reasons for this-typically , men take more risks than woman and are more likely to drink and smoke but perhaps more importantly , men don ’ t go to the doctor .
" men aren ’ t seeing doctors as often as they should , " says dr . gullotta , " this is particularly so for the over - 40s , when diseases tend to strike . "
gullotta says a healthy man should visit the doctor every year or two .
for those over 45 , it should be at least once a year .
two months ago gullotta saw a 50 - year-old ma who had delayed doing anything about his smoker ’ s cough for a year .
" when i finally saw him it had already spread and he has since died from lung cancer " he says , " earlier detection and treatment may not have cured him , but it would have prolonged this life "
according to a recent survey , 95 % of women aged between 15 and early 40s see a doctor once a year , compared to 70 % of men in the same age group .
" a lot of men think they are invincible " gullotta says " they only come in when a friend drops dead on the golf course and they think " geez , if it could happen to him .
then there is the ostrich approach , " some men are scared of what might be there and would rather not know , " says dr . ross cartmill .
" most men get their cars serviced more regularly than they service their bodies , " cartmill says . he believes most diseases that commonly affect men could be addressed by preventive check-ups .
regular check-ups for men would inevitably place strain on the public purse , cartmill says . "
but prevention is cheaper in the long run than having to treat the diseases .
besides , the ultimate cost is far greater : it is called premature death . "
high-quality customer service is preached by many , but actually keeping customers happy is easier said than done
shoppers seldom complain to the manager or owner of a retail store , but instead will alert their friends , relatives , co-workers , strangers-and anyone who will listen .
store managers are often the last to hear complaints , and often find out only when their regular customers decide t frequent their competitors , according to a study jointly conducted by verde group and wharton school
" storytelling hurts retailers and entertains consumers , " said paula courtney , president of the verde group . "
the store loses the customer , but the shopper must also find a replacement . "
on average , every unhappy customer will complain to at least four other , and will no longer visit the specific store for every dissatisfied customer , a store will lose up to three more due to negative reviews .
the resulting " snowball effect " can be disastrous to retailers .
according to the research , shoppers who purchased clothing encountered the most problems .
ranked second and third were grocery and electronics customers .
the most common complaints include filled parking lots , cluttered shelves , overloaded racks , out-of-stock items , long check-out lines , and rude salespeople .
during peak shopping hours , some retailers solved the parking problems by getting moonlightinglocal police to work as parking attendants .
some hired flag wavers to direct customers to empty parking spaces .
this guidance eliminated the need for customers to circle the parking lot endlessly , and avoided confrontation between those eyeing the same parking space .
retailers can relieve the headaches by redesigning store layouts , pre-stocking sales items , hiring speedy and experienced cashiers , and having sales representatives on hand to answer questions .
most importantly , salespeople should be diplomatic and polite with angry customers .
" retailers who ’ re responsive and friendly are more likely to smooth over issues than those who aren ’ t so friendly . "
said professor stephen hoch .
" maybe something as simple as a greeter at the store entrance would help . "
customers can also improve future shopping experiences by filing complaints to the retailer , instead of complaining to the rest of the world .
retailers are hard-pressed to improve when they have no idea what is wrong .
media selection for advertisements
after determining the target audience for a product or service , advertising agencies must select the appropriate media for the advertisement .
we discuss here the major types of media used in advertising .
we focus on attention on seven types of advertising : television , newspapers , radio , magazines , out-of-home , internet , and direct mail .
television
television in an attractive medium for advertising because it delivers mass audiences to advertisers .
when you consider that nearly three out of four americans have seen the game show who wants to be a millionaire ?
you can understand the power of television to communicate with a large audience .
when advertisers create a brand , for example , they want to impress consumers with the brand and its image .
television provides an ideal vehicle for this type of communication .
but television is an expensive medium , and not all advertisers can afford to use it .
television ’ s influence on advertising is fourfold .
first , narrowcasting means that television channels are seen by an increasingly narrow segment of the audience .
the golf channel , for instance , is watched by people who play golf .
home and garden television is seen by those interested in household improvement projects .
thus , audiences are smaller and more homogeneous than they have been in the past .
second , there is an increase in the number of television channels available to viewers , and thus , advertisers .
this had also resulted in an increase in the sheer number of advertisements to which audiences are exposed .
third , digital recording devices allow audience members more control over which commercials they watch .
fourth , control over programming is being passed from the networks to local cable operators and satellite programmers .
newspapers
after television , the medium attracting the next largest annual as revenue is newspapers .
the new york times , which reaches a national audience , accounts for $ 1 billion in ad revenue annually .
it has increased its national circulation by 40 % and is now available for home delivery in 168 cities .
locally , newspapers are the largest advertising medium .
newspapers are a less expensive advertising medium than television and provide a way for advertisers to communicate a longer , more detailed message to their audience than they can through television .
given new production techniques , advertisements can be printed in about 48 hours , meaning newspapers are also a quick way of getting the message out .
newspapers are often the most important form of news for a local community , and they develop a high degree of loyalty from local readers .
radio
advertising on radio continues to grow .
radio is often used in conjunction with outdoor bill-boards and the internet to reach even more customers than television .
advertisers are likely to use radio because it is a less expensive medium than television , which means advertisers can afford to repeat their ads often .
internet companies are also turning to radio advertising .
radio provides a way for advertisers to communicate with audience members at all times of the day .
consumers listen to radio on their way to school or work , at work , on the way home , and in the evening hours .
two major changes — satellite and internet radio — will force radio advertisers to adapt their methods .
both of these radio forms allow listeners to tune in stations that are more distant than the local stations they could receive in the past .
as a result , radio will increasingly attract target audiences who live many miles apart .
magazines
newsweeklies , women ’ s titles , and business magazines have all seen increases in advertising because they attract the high-end market .
magazines are popular with advertisers because of the narrow market that they deliver .
a broadcast medium such as network television attracts all types of audience members , but magazine audiences are more homogeneous .
if you read sports illustrated , for example , you have such in common with the magazine ’ s other readers .
advertisers see magazines as an efficient way of reaching target audience members .
advertisers using the print media — magazines and newspapers — will need to adapt to two main changes .
first , the internet will bring larger audiences to local newspapers .
these audiences will be more diverse and geographically dispersed than in the past .
second , advertisers will have to understand how to use an increasing number of magazines for their target audiences .
although some magazines will maintain national audiences , a large number of magazines will entertain narrower audiences .
out-of-home advertising
out-of-home advertising , also called place-based advertising , has become an increasingly effective way of reaching consumers , who are more active than ever before .
many consumers today do not sit at home and watch television .
using billboards , newsstands , and bus shelters for advertising is an effective way of reaching these on-the-go consumers .
more consumers travel longer distances to and from work , which also makes out-of-home advertising effective .
technology has changed the nature of the billboard business , making it a more effective medium than in the past .
using the digital printing , billboard companies can print a billboard in 2 hours , compared with 6 days previously .
this allows advertisers more variety in the types of messages they create because they can change their messages more quickly .
internet
as consumers become more comfortable with online shopping , advertisers will seek to reach this market .
as consumers get more of their news and information from the internet , the ability of television and radio to get the word out to consumers will decrease .
the challenge to internet advertisers is to create ads that audience members remember .
internet advertising will play a more prominent role in organizations ’ advertising in the near future .
internet audiences tend to be quite homogeneous , but small .
advertisers will have to adjust their methods to reach these audiences and will have to adapt their persuasive strategies to the inline medium as well .
direct mail
a final advertising medium is direct mail , which uses mailings to consumers to communicate a client ’ s message .
direct mail includes newsletters , postcards , and special promotion .
direct mail is an effective way to build relationships with consumers .
for many businesses , direct mail is the most effective form of advertising .
global warming may or may not be the great environmental crisis of the 21st century , but regardless of whether it is or isn ’ t – we won ’ t do much about it .
we will argue over it and may even , as a nation , make some fairly solemn-sounding commitments to avoid it .
but the more dramatic and meaningful these commitments seem , the less likely they are to be observed .
al gore calls global warming an " inconvenient truth , " as if merely recognizing it could put us on a path to a solution .
but the real truth is that we don ’ t know enough to relieve global warming , and – without major technological breakthroughs — we can ’ t do much about it .
from 2003 to 2050 , the world ’ s population is projected to grow from 6.4 billion to 9.1 billion , a 42 % increase .
if energy use per person and technology remain the same , total energy use and greenhouse gas emissions ( mainly , co2 ) will be 42 % higher in 2050 . but that ’ s too low , because societies that grow richer use more energy .
we need economic growth unless we condemn the world ’ s poor to their present poverty and freeze everyone else ’ s living standards .
with modest growth , energy use and greenhouse emissions more than double by 2050 .
no government will adopt rigid restrictions on economic growth and personal freedom ( limits on electricity usage , driving and travel ) that might cut back global warming .
still , politicians want to show they ’ re " doing something . "
consider the kyoto protocol .
it allowed countries that joined to punish those that didn ’ t .
but it hasn ’ t reduced co2 emissions ( up about 25 % since 1990 ) , and many signatories didn ’ t adopt tough enough policies to hit their 2008-2012 targets .
the practical conclusion is that if global warming is a potential disaster , the only solution is new technology .
only an aggressive research and development program might find ways of breaking dependence on fossil fuels or dealing with it .
the trouble with the global warming debate is that it has become a moral problem when it ’ s really an engineering one .
the inconvenient truth is that if we don ’ t solve the engineering problem , we ’ re helpless .
someday a stranger will read your e-mail without your permission or scan the websites you ’ ve visited .
or perhaps someone will casually glance through your credit card purchase or cell phone bills to find out your shopping preferences or calling habits .
in fact , it ’ s likely some of these things have already happened to you .
who would watch you without your permission ?
it might be a spouse , a girlfriend , a marketing company , a boss , a cop or a criminal .
whoever it is , they will see you in a way you never intended to be seen — the 21st century equivalent of being caught naked .
psychologists tell us boundaries are healthy , that it ’ s important to reveal yourself to friends , family and lovers in stages , at appropriate times .
but few boundaries remain .
the digital bread crumbs you leave everywhere make it easy for strangers to reconstruct who you are , where you are and what you like .
in some cases , a simple google search can reveal what you think .
like it or not , increasingly we live in a world where you simple cannot keep a secret .
the key question is : does that matter ?
when opinion polls ask americans about privacy , most say they are concerned about losing it .
a survey found an overwhelming pessimism about privacy , with 60 percent of respondents saying they feel their privacy is " slipping away , and that bothers me . "
but people say one thing and do another .
only a tiny fraction of americans change any behaviors in an effort to preserve their privacy .
few people turn down a discount at tollbooths to avoid using the ez-pass system that can track automobile movements .
and few turn down supermarket loyalty cards .
privacy economist alessandro acquisti has run a series of tests that reveal people will surrender personal information like social security numbers just to get their hands on a pitiful 50 - cents-off coupon .
but privacy does matter – at least sometimes .
it ’ s like health : when you have it , you don ’ t notice it .
only when it ’ s gone do you wish you ’ d done more to protect it .
univeraities branch out
as never before in their long story , universities have become instruments of national
competition as well as instruments of peace .
they are the place of the scientific discoveries that
move economies forward , and the primary means of educating the talent required to obtain and
maintain competitive advantages .
but at the same time , the opening of national borders to the flow
of goods , services , information and especially people has made universities a powerful force for
global integration , mutual understanding and geopolitical stability .
in response to the same forces that have driven the world economy , universities have become
more self-consciousy global : seeking students from around the world who represent the entire
range of cultures and values , sending their own students abroad to prepare them for global careers ,
offering courses of study that address the challenges of an interconnected world and collaborative
research programs to advance science for the benefit of all humanity .
of the forces shaping higher education none is more sweeping than the movement across borders .
over the past three decades the number of students leaving home each year to study abroad has grown at an annual rate of 3.0 percent , from 8000,000 in 1975 to 2.5 million in 2994 .
most travel from one developed nation to another , but the flow from developing to developed countries id growing rapidly .
the reverse flow , from developed to developing countries , is on the rise , too .
today foreign students earn 30 percent of the doctoral degrees awarded in the united states and 38 percent of those in the united kingdom .
and the number crossing borders for undergraduate study is growing as well , to 8 percent of the undergraduates at america ’ s best institutions and 10 percent of all undergraduates in the u . k .
in the united states , 20 percent of the newly hired professors in science and engineering are foreign-born , and in china many newly hired faculty hired faculty members at the top research universities received their graduate education abroad .
universities are also encouraging students to spend some of their undergraduate years in another country .
in europe , more than 140,000 students participate in the erasmus program each year , taking courses for credit in one of 2 , 2000 participating institutions across the continent .
and in the united states , institutions are helping place students in summer internshipsabroad to prepare them for global careers .
yale and harvard have led the way , offering every undergraduate at least one international study or internship opportunity and providing the financial resources to make it possible .
globalization is also reshaping the way research is done .
one new trend involves sourcing portions of a research program to another country .
yale professor and howard hughes medical shanghai ’ s fudan university , in collaboration with faculty colleagues from both schools .
the shanghai center has 95 employees and graduate students working in a 4,300- square-meter laboratory seminars with scientists from both campuses .
the arrangement benefits both countries ;
xu ’ s yale lab is more productive , thanks to the lower costs of conducing from a word-class scientist and his u . s . team .
as a result of its strength in science , the united states has consistently led of the world in the world in the commercialization of major new technologies , from the mainframe computer and integrated circuit of the 1960s to the internet infrastructureand applications software of
the 1990s.the link between university-based science and industrial application is often indirect but sometimes highly visible : silicon valley was intentionally created by stanford university , and
route 128 outside boston has long housed companies spun off from mit and harvard .
around the world , governments have encouraged copying of his model , perhaps most successfully in cambridge , england , where microsoft and scores of other leading software and biotechnology companies have set up shop around the university .
for all its success , the united states remains deeply hesitant about sustaining the research university model .
most politician recognize the link between investment in science and national
economic strength , but support for research funding has been unsteady .
the budget of the national institutes of health doubled between 1998 and 2003 , but has risen more slowly than inflations since then .
support for the physical sciences and engineering barely kept pace with inflation during that same period .
the attempt to make up lost ground is welcome , but the nation would be better served by steady , predictable increases in science funding at the rate of long-term gdp growth , which is on the order of inflation plus 3 percent per year .
american politicians have great difficulty recognizing that admitting more foreign students can greatly promote the national interest by increasing international understanding .
adjusted for inflation , public funding for international exchanges and foreign-language study is well below the levels of 40 years ago .
in the wake of september 11 , changes in the visa process caused a dramatic decline in the number of foreign students seeking admission to u . s .
universities , and a corresponding surge in enrollments in australia , singapore and the u . k .
objections from americans university and business leaders led to improvements in the process and a reversal of the decline , but the united states is still seen by many as unwelcoming to international students .
most americans recognize that universities contribute to the nation ’ s well-being through their scientific research , but many fear that foreign students threaten american competitiveness by taking their knowledge and skills back home .
they fail to grasp that welcoming foreign students and like immigrants throughout history-strength the nation ; and second , foreign students who study in the united states become ambassadors for many of its most cherished values when they return home .
or at least they understand them better .
in america as elsewhere , few instruments of foreign policy are as effective in promoting peace and stability as welcoming international university students .
by almost any measure , there is a boom in internet-based instruction .
in just a few years , 34 percent of american universities have begun offering some form of distance learning ( dl ) , and among the larger schools , it ’ s closer to 90 percent .
if you doubt the popularity of the trend , you probably haven ’ t .
it enrolls 90,000 student , a statistic used to support its claim to be the largest private university in the country .
while the kinds of instruction offered in these programs will differ , dl usually signifies a course in which the instructions post syllabi , reading assignments , and schedules on websites , and students send in their assignments by e-mail .
generally speaking , face-to-face communication with an instructor is minimized or eliminated altogether .
the attraction for students might at first seem obvious .
primarily , there ’ s the convenience promised by courses on the net : you can do the work , as they say , in your pajamas .
but figures indicate that the reduced effort results in a reduced commitment to the course .
while dropout rates for all freshmen at american universities is around 20 percent , the rate for online students is 35 percent .
students themselves seem to understand the weaknesses inherent in the setup .
in a survey conducted for ecornell , the dl division of cornell university , less than a third of the respondents expected the quality of the online course to be as good as the classroom course .
cleary form the schools perspective , there ’ s a lot of money to be saved .
although some of the more ambitious programs require new investments in servers and networks to support collaborative software , most dl courses can run on existing or minimally upgradedsystems .
the more students who enroll in a course but don ’ t come to campus , the more the school saves on keeping the lights on in the classrooms , paying doorkeepers , and maintaining parking lots , and there ’ s evindence that instructors must work harder to run a dl course for a variety of reasons , won ’ t be paid any more , and might well be paid less .
in this age of internet chat , videogames and reality television , there is no shortage of mindless activities to keep a child occupied .
yet , despite the competition , my 8 - year-old daughter rebecca wants to spend her leisure time writing short stories .
she wants to enter one of her stories into a writing contest , a competition she won last yes .
as a writer i know about winning contest , and about losing them .
i know what it is like to work hard on a story only to receive a rejection slip from the publisher .
i also know the pressures of trying to live up to a reputation created by previous victories .
what if she doesn ’ t win the contest again ?
that ’ s the strange thing about being a parent .
so many of our own past scars and dashed hopes can surface .
a revelationcame last week when i asked her , " don ’ t you want to win again ? "
" no , " she replied , " i just want to tell the story of an angel going to first grade . "
i had just spent weeks correcting her stories as she spontaneouslytold them .
telling myself that i was merely an experienced writer guiding the young writer across the hall , i offered suggestions for characters , conflicts and endings for her tales .
the story about a fearful angel starting first trade was quickly " guided " by me into the tale of a little girl with a wild imagination taking her fist music lesson .
i had turned her contest into my contest without even realizing it .
staying back and giving kids space to grow is not as easy as it looks .
because i konw very little about farm animals who use tools or angels who go to first grade , i had to accept the fact that i was co-optingmy daughter ’ s experence .
while stepping back was difficult for me , it was certainly a good first step that i will quickly follow with more steps , putting myself far enough away to give her room but close enough to help if asked .
all the while i will be reminding myself that children need room to experiment , grow and find their own voices .
can digital textbooks truly replace the print kind ?
the shortcomings of traditional print edition textbooks are obvious : for starters they're heavy , with the average physics textbook weighing 3.6 pounds .
they're also expensive , especially when you factor in the average college student's limited budget , typically costing hundreds of dollars every semester .
but the worst part is that print versions of textbooks are constantly undergoing revisions .
many professors require that their students use only the latest versions in the classroom , essentially rendering older texts unusable .
for students , it means they're basically stuck with a four pound paperweight that they can't sell back .
which is why digital textbooks , if they live up to their promise , could help ease many of these shortcomings .
but till now , they've been something like a mirage in the distance , more like a hazy dream than an actual reality .
imagine the promise : carrying all your textbooks in a 1.3 pound ipad ?
it sounds almost too good to be true .
but there are a few pilot schools already making the transition over to digital books .
universities like cornell and brown have jumped onboard .
and one medical program at the university of california , irvine , gave their entire class ipads with which to download textbooks just last year .
but not all were eager to jump aboard .
" people were tired of using the ipad textbook besides using it for reading . "
says kalpit shah , who will be going into his second year at irvine's medical program this fall .
" they weren't using it as a source of communication because they couldn't read or write in it .
so a third of the people in my program were using the ipad in class to take notes , the other third were using laptops and the last third were using paper and pencil . "
the reason it hasn't caught on yet , he tells me .
is that the functionality of e-edition textbooks is incredibly limited , and some students just aren't motivated to learn new study behavior .
but a new application called inkling might change all that .
the company just released an updated version last week , and it'll be utilized in over 50 undergraduate and graduate classrooms this coming school year .
" digital textbooks are not going to catch on , " says inkling ceo matt maclnnis as he's giving me a demo over coffee .
" what i mean by that is the current perspective of the digital textbook is it's an exact copy of the print book .
there's course smart , etc . , these guys who take an image of the page and put it on a screen .
if that's how we're defining digital textbooks , there's no hope of that becoming a mainstream product . "
he calls inkling a platform for publishers to build rich multimedia content from the ground up , with a heavy emphasis on real-world functionality .
the traditional textbook merely serves as a skeleton .
at first glance inkling is an impressive experience .
after swiping into the ipad app , which you can get for free here , he opens up a few different types of textbooks .
up first is a chemistry book .
the boot time is pretty fast , and he navigates through a few chapters before swiping into a fully rendered 3d molecule that can be spun around to view its various building blocks .
" publishers give us all of the source media , artwork , videos , " he says .
" we help them think through how to actually build something for this platform . "
next he pulls up a music composition textbook , complete with playable demos .
it's a learning experience that attacks you from multiple sensory directions .
it's clear why this would be something a music major would love .
but the most exciting part about inkling , to me .
is its notation system .
here's how it works :
when you purchase a used print book , it comes with its previous owner's highlights and notes in the margins .
it uses the experience of someone who already went through the class to help improve your reading ( how much you trust each notation is obviously up to you ) .
but with inkling , you can highlight a piece of content and make notes .
here's where things get interesting , though : if a particularly important passage is highlighted by multiple inkling users , that information is stored on the cloud and is available for anyone reading the same textbook to come across .
that means users have access to notes from not only their classmates and facebook friends , but anyone who purchased the book across the country .
the best comments are then sorted democratically by a voting system , meaning that your social learning experience is shared with the best and brightest thinkers .
as a bonus , professors can even chime in on discussions .
they ’ ll be able to answer the questions of students who are in their class directly via the interactive book .
of course , inkling addresses several of the other shortcomings in traditional print as well .
textbook versions are constantly updated , motivating publishers by minimizing production costs ( the big ones like mcgraw-hill are already onboard ) .
furthermore , students will be able to purchase sections of the text instead of buying the whole thing , with individual chapters costing as little as $ 2.99 .
there are , however , challenges .
" it takes efforts to build each book , " maclnnis tells me .
and it ’ s clear why .
each interactive textbook is a media-heavy experience built from the ground up , and you can tell that it takes a respectable amount of manpower to put together each one .
for now the app is also ipad-exclusive , and though a few of these educational institutions are giving the hardware away for free , for other students who don ’ t have such a luxury it ’ s an added layer of cost — and an expensive one at that .
but this much is clear .
the traditional textbook model is and has been broken for quite some time .
whether digitally interactive ones like inkling actually take off or not remains to be seen , and we probably won ’ t have a definite answer for the next few years .
however the solution to any problem begins with a step in a direction .
and at least for now , that hazy mirage in the distance ?
a little more tangible , a little less of a dream .
junk food is everywhere .
we're eating way too much of it .
most of us know what we're doing and yet we do it anyway .
so here's a suggestion offered by two researchers at the rand corporation : why not take a lesson from alcohol control policies and apply them to where food is sold and how it's displayed ?
" many policy measures to control obesity assume that people consciously and rationally choose what and how much they eat and therefore focus on providing information and more access to healthier foods , " note the two researchers .
" in contrast , " the researchers continue , " many regulations that don't assume people make rational choices have been successfully applied to control alcohol , a substance - like food - of which immoderate consumption leads to serious health problems . "
the research references studies of people's behavior with food and alcohol and results of alcohol restrictions , and then lists five regulations that the researchers think might be promising if applied to junk foods .
among them :
density restrictions : licenses to sell alcohol aren't handed out unplanned to all comers but are allotted based on the number of places in an area that already sell alcohol .
these make alcohol less easy to get and reduce the number of psychological cues to drink .
similarly , the researchers say , being presented with junk food stimulates our desire to eat it .
so why not limit the density of food outlets , particularly ones that sell food rich in empty calories ?
and why not limit sale of food in places that aren't primarily food stores ?
display and sales restrictions : california has a rule prohibiting alcohol displays near the cash registers in gas stations , and in most places you can't buy alcohol at drive-through facilities .
at supermarkets , food companies pay to have their wares in places where they're easily seen .
one could remove junk food to the back of the store and ban them from the shelves at checkout lines .
the other measures include restricting portion sizes , taxing and prohibiting special price deals for junk foods , and placing warning labels on the products .
kodak's decision to file for bankruptcy protection is a sad , though not unexpected , turning point for a leading american corporation that pioneered consumer photography and dominated the film market for decades , but ultimately failed to adapt to the digital revolution .
although many attribute kodak's downfall to " complacency , " that explanation doesn't acknowledge the lengths to which the company went to reinvent itself .
decades ago , kodak anticipated that digital photography would overtake film - and in fact , kodak invented the first digital camera in 1975 - but in a fateful decision , the company chose to shelf its new discovery to focus on its traditional film business .
it wasn't that kodak was blind to the future , said rebecca henderson , a professor at harvard business school , but rather that it failed to execute on a strategy to confront it .
by the time the company realized its mistake , it was too late .
kodak is an example of a firm that was very much aware that they had to adapt , and spent a lot of money trying to do so , but ultimately failed .
large companies have a difficult time switching to new markets because there is a temptation to put existing assets into the new businesses .
although kodak anticipated the inevitable rise of digital photography , its corporate culture was too rooted in the successes of the past for it to make the clean break necessary to fully embrace the future .
they were a company stuck in time .
their history was so important to them .
now their history has become a liability .
kodak's downfall over the last several decades was dramatic .
in 1976 , the company commanded 90 % of the market for photographic film and 85 % of the market for cameras .
but the 1980s brought new competition from japanese film company fuji photo , which undermined kodak by offering lower prices for film and photo supplies .
kodak's decision not to pursue the role of official film for the 1984 los angeles olympics was a major miscalculation .
the bid went instead to fuji , which exploited its sponsorship to win a permanent foothold in the marketplace .
school lunch
ryan moved silently through the lunch line .
the cook put a cheeseburger and an applesauce cup on his tray .
he grabbed a bottle of milk from the cooler at the end of the line and found a seat in the cafeteria .
ryan saw that his friend tyler had brought lunch from home .
" what did you bring today , tyler ? "
he asked .
tyler pulled his meal out of its brown paper sack .
" i've got a ham sandwich , chips , two cupcakes , and a can of soda . "
ryan's mouth started to water .
" uh , tyler , " he said .
" if you don't want one of those cupcakes , i'll take it .
they sure look good . "
tyler handed ryan his cupcake .
" sure , " he said .
" i won't eat all this . "
lunch requirements
is ryan eating a healthy meal if he eats the school lunch ?
school lunch supporters say " yes . "
recent studies show that a government-approved school lunch has more variety and is more nutritious than most lunches brought from home .
it's also lower in fat .
the national school lunch act requires that school lunches go along with the dietary guidelines for americans developed by the government .
meals must contain a variety of foods with plenty of grains and at least one fruit or vegetable each day .
foods must not contain too much sugar or salt .
a hot lunch can contain up to 30 % fat , but not more than 10 % of its calories should come from saturated fat .
in an average week , you should get one-third of the daily recommended dietary allowances for protein , iron , calcium , and vitamins a and c from your school lunch .
dare to compare
let's compare ryan's and tyler's meals to sec which is healthier .
ryan's hot lunch ( without the cupcake from his friend ) has 577 calories , 25 grams of total fat .
and 12 grams of saturated fat .
he had one serving of fruit , 26 grams of protein , and 483 milligrams of calcium .
ryan ate more total fat ( 39 % ) and saturated fat ( 19 % ) than the dietary guidelines recommend .
however , schools can still meet the guidelines by having the numbers average out over a week of lunches .
tyler's lunch from home ( this includes both cupcakes ) had 1 014 calories .
45 grams ( 40 % ) of total fat , and 10 grams ( 9 % ) of saturated fat .
he ate 21 grams of protein and 155 milligrams of calcium , but no fruits or vegetables .
tyler's meal met the saturated fat guidelines , but had too much total fat .
tyler ate more calories and total fat than ryan did .
ryan ate more protein , calcium , and fruit than tyler did .
which meal would you say is the healthier choice ?
?
la carte options
federal standards and most school districts forbid selling food in the cafeteria that competes with the school lunch .
many programs do , however , offer a la carte choices for students who don't want the hot meal .
foods sold a la carte separate from the main meal and are priced individually .
these foods do not have to meet the same nutritional standards as the foods on the hot lunch menu .
neither do the foods sold at a snack-bar or those foods available elsewhere in the school .
a study in one texas school district compared the lunches of fourth graders who did not have food choices with those of fifth graders who could choose either a standard lunch or select from a snack-bar .
the fourth graders ate 25 % more fruits and vegetables than the fifth graders .
food sold as fund-raisers can also have an impact on school lunch .
the money raised is important to provide needed funds for many after-class activities .
but the meal's overall nutritional quality usually goes down .
many of these foods are high in fat , sugar , or both , and often come in extralarge portions .
fundraisers rarely sell fruits and vegetables .
choosing wisely
school food-service programs are trying to please students , and still offer quality , nutritious meals at low cost .
that task isn't easy .
one school district in new york decided to do something about it .
a student advisory board kept the food-service director up-to-date on what the kids wanted .
they also worked with school snack-bars to sell smaller servings of chips and candy .
you can make healthy meal choices at school even when not-so-healthy choices are available .
you can be sure to get a nutritious meal when you pick foods from the food guide pyramid .
for example , always drink milk or a calcium-rich juice for lunch .
even chocolate milk is more nutritious than soda or a sports drink .
stay away from snack foods offered a la carte .
they may fill you up now , but the ones that contain a lot of fat and sugar will slow you down later .
always eat the fruits and vegetables offered at the meal .
they help give you the energy and vitamins you need to get you through the rest of your school day .
some people like to make fun of school lunches , but good nutrition is no laughing matter .
your school's hot lunch is based on the food guide pyramid , so it's full of nutrition .
give it a try .
you might be pleasantly surprised .
it's a team effort
team nutrition is a program that gets schools excited about healthy eating .
schools across the nation pick a team leader who develops fun nutrition activities .
the leader works with students , teachers , parents , food-service workers , and people from the community .
activities can range from running a school health fair to planting a garden .
at the jordan community school in chicago , illinois , one group of fifth graders showed off their " pizzagarden " in a big , colorful poster showing vegetarian pizzas .
the students and food-service staff planted and took care of the vegetables that they would later use as ingredients on their pizzas .
the group started growing the plants in the school's cafeteria .
then they moved them outdoors to the students ' demonstration garden .
this is just one way to get everyone involved in making school lunch healthy and fun .
team up with your own group and see how creative you can get .
libraries are my world .
i've been a patron all my life , and for the past nine years i've worked at multiple libraries and archives in and around detroit .
the library as an institution has many roles , but as our country struggles through an economic crisis , i have watched the library where i work evolve into a career and business center , a community gathering place and a bastion of hope .
in the spring of 2007 1 got a library internship at the southfield public library ( spl ) , just north of detroit .
summers at spl were usually slow , but that year , we experienced a library that was as busy as science-fair project week , midterms or tax season .
yet patrons weren't looking for mosby's nursing drug reference or tax return forms .
they were coming for information on growing their small business .
i interpreted people's interest in our business collection as the first step to pursuing their dreams , but these patrons were not motivated by dreams .
they were responding to reality , and they were looking for plan b .
things worsened in 2008 , and in 2009 the economic crisis continues to plague michigan .
last year , we put up a display with a variety of job resources that we restocked every hour .
each night the library closed , the display was bare .
while we normally keep displays up for a week , we kept the job resources display up for months .
then there's the tightening credit market .
people see the writing on the wall and they want to get educated .
they can't afford a financial adviser , but checking books out is free .
some of the most popular titles now are rich dad , poor dad .
think and grow rich , and suze orman's 2009 action plan .
the economic downturn affects us all .
i have had to work long hours and don't get to see much of my boyfriend or experience any kind of social life lately , but i am thankful to be in a position where i can help people overcome this struggle .
in michigan , we haven't lost hope .
as long as there are libraries here , there will always be hope .
more than three dozen billionaires , including well-known philanthropist david rockefeller , have promised at least half of their fortunes to charity , joining a programme that bill and melinda gates and warren buffett started in june to encourage other wealthy people to give .
the pledge is currently worth about $ 150 billion , but the programme predicts it will eventually be worth $ 600 billion .
" during even the depression's worst years , my parents gave money - about 8 % of their annual income of $ 2200 , " said lorry lokey , one of the donors , on the website of the programme , the giving pledge , " i remember saying to my mother that we can't afford that .
but she said we have to share with others . "
the pledge has been a matter of some debate in philanthropic and non-profit circles , with some experts dismissing it as mere publicity and others predicting that it would produce a flood of new money to support non-profit groups .
buffett said the real value of the pledge was found in the example it set and in the sentiments expressed in the letters posted on the website .
buffett and gates will hold several dinners later this year to recruit more billionaires , and members of the giving pledge will meet annually to discuss their philanthropy .
the pair are due to meet some wealthiest people in china next month and india in march .
" we hope this catches fire in some other countries , " buffett said , " if they want to take what we think is a good idea and run with it , we will be cheering . "
buffett said the number of people who had agreed to sign on was at the high end of his expectations .
he said some people who declined to sign the pledge were planning to give away most of their wealth but did not want to draw attention to those plans .
energy tycoon pickens , who is worth about $ 1 billion , said in his giving pledge letter : " i've long stated that i enjoy making money , and i enjoy giving it away .
i'm not a big fan of inherited wealth .
it generally does more harm than good . "
surviving the recession
america's recession began quietly at the end of 2007 .
since then it has evolved into a global crisis .
reasonable people may disagree about whom to blame .
financiers who were not as clever as they thought they were ?
regulators falling asleep at work ?
consumers who borrowed too much ?
politicians who thoughtlessly promoted home-ownership for those who could not afford it ?
all are guilty ; and what a mess they have created .
since 2007 america has shed 5 million jobs .
more than 15 % of the workforce are jobless or underemployed - roughly 25 million workers .
the only industries swelling their payrolls are health care , utilities and the federal government .
the value of listed shares in american firms collapsed by 57 % from its peak in october 2007 to a low in march this year , though it has since bounced back somewhat .
industrial production fell by 12 .
8 % in the year to march , the worst slide since the second world war .
mark zandi , and economist at moody's economy , com , predicts that the recession will shrink america's economy by 3.5 % in total .
for most executives , this is the worst business environment they've ever seen .
times are so tough that even bosses are taking pay cuts .
median pay for chief executives of s & p 500 companies fell 6.8 % in 2008 .
the overthrown business giants of wall street took the biggest knock , with average pay cuts of 38 % and median bonuses of zero .
but there was some pain for everyone ; median pay for chief executives of non-financial firms in the s & p 500 fell by 2.7 % .
nearly every business has a sad tale to tell .
for example , arne sorenson , the president of marriott hotels , likens the crisis to the downturn that hit his business after september 11th , 2001 .
when the twin towers fell , americans stopped travelling .
marriott had its worst quarter ever , with revenues per room falling by 25 % .
this year , without a terrorist attack , the hotel industry is " putting the same numbers on the board " , says mr . sorenson .
the hotel bust , like most busts , was preceded by a breathtaking boom .
although many other big firms resisted the temptation to over-borrow , developers borrowed heavily and built bigger and fancier hotels as if the whole world were planning a holiday in las vegas .
when the bubble burst , demand collapsed .
hotel owners found themselves with a huge number of empty rooms even as a lot of unnecessary new hotels were ready to open .
other industries have suffered even more .
large numbers of builders , property firms and retailers have gone bankrupt .
and a disaster has hit detroit .
last year the american car industry had the capacity to make 17 million vehicles .
sales in 2009 could be barely half of that .
the big three american carmakers - general motors , ford and chrysler - accumulated ruinous costs over the post-war years , such as gold-plated health plans and pensions for workers who retired as young as 48 .
all three are desperately restructuring .
only ford may survive in its current form .
hard times breed hard feelings .
few americans understand what caused the recession .
some are seeking scapegoats .
politicians are happy to take advantage .
bosses have been summoned to washington to be scolded on live television .
the president condemns their greed
extravagance is out
businessfolk are bending over backwards to avoid seeming extravagant .
meetings at resorts are suddenly unacceptable .
goldman sachs , an investment bank , cancelled a conference in las vegas at the last minute and rebooked it in san francisco , which cost more but sounded less fun .
anyway , the pain will eventually end .
american business will regain its shine .
many firms will die , but the survivors will emerge leaner and stronger than before .
the financial sector's share of the economy will shrink , and stay shrunk for years to come .
the importance of non-financial firms will accordingly rise , along with their ability to attract the best talent .
america will remain the best place on earth to do business , so long as barack obama and the democrats in congress resist the temptation to interfere too much , and so long as organised labour does not overplay its hand .
the crisis will prove hugely disruptive , however .
bad management techniques will be exposed .
necessity will force the swift adoption of more efficient ones .
at the same time , technological innovation will barely pause for breath - and two big political changes seem likely .
mr . obama's plan to curb carbon dioxide ( co2 ) emissions , though necessary , will be far from cost-free , whatever his sunny speeches on the subject might suggest .
the shift to a low-carbon economy will help some firms , hurt others and require every organisation that uses much energy to rethink how it operates .
it is harder to predict how mr . obama's proposed reforms to the failing health-care system will turn out .
if he succeeds in curbing costs - a big if - it would be a huge gain for america .
some businesses will benefit but the vast bulk of the savings will be captured by workers , not their employers .
in the next couple of years the businesses that thrive will be those that are tight with costs , careful of debt , cautious with cash flow and extremely attentive to what customers want .
they will include plenty of names no one has yet heard of .
times change , and corporations change with them .
in 1955 time's man of the year was harlow curtice , the boss of gm .
his firm was leading america towards " a new economic order " , the magazine wrote .
thanks to men like curtice , " the bonds of scarcity " had been broken and america was rolling " to an all-time high of prosperity " .
soon , americans would need to spend " comparatively little time earning a living " .
half a century later gm is a typical example of poor management .
in march its chief executive was fired by time's current man of the year , mr obama .
the government now backs up the domestic car industry , lending it money and overseeing its turnaround plans .
with luck , this will be short-lived .
but there is a danger that washington will end up micromanaging not only detroit but also other parts of the economy .
and clever as mr obama's advisers are , history suggests they will be bad at this .
the gatais used to frown when they received power bills that routinely topped $ 200 .
last september the couple moved into a 1 500 - square-foot home in premier gardens , a subdivision of 95 " zero-energy homes " ( zeh ) just outside town .
now they're actually eager to see their electricity bills .
the grand total over the 10 months they've lived in the three-bedroom house : $ 75 .
for the past two months they haven't paid a cent .
zeh communities are the leading edge of technologies that might someday create houses that produce as much energy as they consume .
premier gardens is one of a half-dozen subdivisions in california where every home cuts power consumption by 50 % , mostly by using low-power appliances and solar panels .
aside from the panels on the roof , premier gardens looks like a community of conventional homes .
but inside , special windows cut power bills by blocking solar heat in summer and retaining indoor warmth in winter .
the rest of the energy savings comes from the solar units .
they don't just feed the home they serve .
if they generate more power than the home is using , the excess flows into the utility's power grid .
the residents are billed by " net metering " : they pay for the amount of power they tap off the grid , less the kilowatts they feed into it .
if a home generates more power than it uses , the bill is zero .
that sounds like a bad deal for the power company , but it's not .
solar homes produce the most power on the hot sunny afternoons when everyone rushes home to turn up the air conditioner .
" it helps us lower usage at peak power times , " says solar expert mike keesee .
" that lets us avoid building costly plants or buying expensive power at peak usage time . "
what's not to like ?
mostly the costs .
the special features can add $ 25000 or more to the purchase price of a house .
tax breaks bring the cost down , especially in california , but in many states zehs can be prohibitively expensive .
for the consumer , it's a matter of paying now for the hardware to save later on the utilities .
romantic love has clear evolutionary roots but our views about what makes an ideal romantic relationship can be swayed by the society we live in .
so says psychologist maureen o'sullivan from the university of san francisco .
she suggests that humans have always tried to strengthen the pair-bond to maximise reproductive success .
many societies throughout history and around the world today have cultivated strong pressures to stay married .
in those where ties to family and community are strong , lifelong marriages can be promoted by practices such as the cultural prohibition of divorce and arranged marriages that are seen as a contract between two families , not just two individuals .
in modern western societies , however , the focus on individuality and independence means that people are less concerned about conforming to the dictates of family and culture .
in the absence of societal pressures to maintain pair-bonds , o'sullivan suggests that romantic love has increasingly come to be seen as the factor that should determine who we stay with and for how long .
" that's why historically we see an increase in romantic love as a basis for forming long-term relationships , " she says .
according to o'sullivan culture also shapes the sorts of feelings we expect to have , and actually do experience , when in love .
although the negative emotions associated with romantic love-fear of loss , disappointment and jealousy-are fairly consistent across cultures , the positive feelings can vary .
" if you ask japanese students to list the positive attributes they expect in a romantic partner , they rate highly things like loyalty , commitment and devotion , " says o'sullivan .
" if you ask american college women , they expect everything under the suit : in addition to being committed , partners have to be amusing , funny and a friend . "
we judge a potential partner according to our specific cultural expectations about what romantic love should feel like .
if you believe that you have found true romance , and your culture tells you that this is what a long-term relationship should be based on , there is less need to rely on social or family pressures to keep couples together .
o'sullivan argues .
is college a worthy investment ?
a ) why are we spending so much money on college ?
and why are we so unhappy about it ?
we all seem to agree that a college education is wonderful , and yet strangely we worry when we see families investing so much in this supposedly essential good .
maybe it's time to ask a question that seems almost sacrilegious : is all this investment in college education really worth it ?
b ) the answer , i fear , is no .
for an increasing number of kids , the extra time and money spent pursuing a college diploma will leave them worse off than they were before they set foot on campus .
c ) for my entire adult life , a good education has been the most important thing for middle-class households .
my parents spent more educating my sister and me than they spent on their house , and they're not the only ones ... and , of course , for an increasing number of families , most of the cost of their house is actually the cost of living in a good school district .
questioning the value of a college education seems a bit like questioning the value of happiness , or fun .
d ) the average price of all goods and services has risen about 50 percent .
but the price of a college education has nearly doubled in that time .
is the education that today's students are getting twice as good ?
are new workers twice as smart ?
have they become somehow massively more expensive to educate ?
e ) perhaps a bit .
richard vedder , an ohio university economics professor , says , " i look at the data , and i see college costs rising faster than inflation up to the mid - 1980s by 1 percent a year .
now i see them rising 3 to 4 percent a year over inflation .
what has happened ?
the federal government has started dropping money out of airplanes . "
aid has increased , subsidized loans have become available , and " the universities have gotten the money . "
economist bryan caplan , who is writing a book about education , agrees : " it's a giant waste of resources that will continue as long as the subsidies continue . "
f ) promotional literature for colleges and student loans often speaks of debt as an " investment in yourself . "
but an investment is supposed to generate income to pay off the loans .
more than half of all recent graduates are unemployed or in jobs that do not require a degree , and the amount of student-loan debt carried by households has increased more than five times since 1999 .
these graduates were told that a diploma was all they needed to succeed , but it won't even get them out of the spare bedroom at mom and dad's .
for many , the most visible result of their four years is the loan payments , which now average hundreds of dollars a month on loan balances in the tens of thousands .
g ) it's true about the money-sort of .
college graduates now make 80 percent more than people who have only a high-school diploma , and though there are no precise estimates , the wage premium for an outstanding school seems to be even higher .
but that's not true of every student .
it's very easy to spend four years majoring in english literature and come out no more employable than you were before you went in .
conversely , chemical engineers straight out of school can easily make almost four times the wages of an entry-level high-school graduate .
h ) james heckman , the nobel prize-winning economist , has examined how the returns on education break down for individuals with different backgrounds and levels of ability .
" even with these high prices , you're still finding a high return for individuals who are bright and motivated , " he says .
on the other hand , " if you're not college ready , then the answer is no , it's not worth it . "
experts tend to agree that for the average student , college is still worth it today , but they also agree that the rapid increase in price is eating up more and more of the potential return .
for borderline students , tuition rise can push those returns into negative territory .
i ) everyone seems to agree that the government , and parents , should be rethinking how we invest in higher education and that employers need to rethink the increasing use of college degrees as crude screening tools for jobs that don't really require college skills .
" employers seeing a surplus of college graduates and looking to fill jobs are just adding that requirement . "
says vedder .
" in fact , a college degree becomes a job requirement for becoming a bar-tender . "
j ) we have started to see some change on the finance side .
a law passed in 2007 allows many students to cap their loan payment at 10 percent of their income and forgives any balance after 25 years .
but of course , that doesn't control the cost of education !
it just shifts it to taxpayers .
it also encourages graduates to choose lower-paying careers , which reduces the financial return to education still further .
" you're subsidizing people to become priests and poets and so forth , " says heckman .
" you may think that's a good thing , or you may not . "
either way it will be expensive for the government .
k ) what might be a lot cheaper is putting more kids to work .
caplan notes that work also builds valuable skills - probably more valuable for kids who don't naturally love sitting in a classroom .
heckman agrees wholeheartedly : " people are different , and those abilities can be shaped .
that's what we've learned , and public policy should recognize that . "
l ) heckman would like to see more apprenticeship-style programs , where kids can learn in the workplace-learn not just specific job skills , but the kind of " soft skills , " like getting to work on time and getting along with a team - that are crucial for career success .
" it's about having mentors and having workplace-based education , " he says .
" time and again i've seen examples of this kind of program working . "
m ) ah , but how do we get there from here ?
with better public policy , hopefully , but also by making better individual decisions .
" historically markets have been able to handle these things , " says vedder .
" and i think eventually markets will handle this one .
if it doesn't improve soon , people are going to wake up and ask , ' why am i going to college ? ' "
a recent global survey of 2000 high-net-worth individuals found that 60 % were not planning on a traditional retirement .
among us participants , 75 % expected to continue working in some capacity even after stepping away from full-time jobs .
" many of these people made their wealth by doing something they're passionate about . "
says daniel egan , head of behavioral finance for barclays wealth americas .
" given the choice , they prefer to continue working . "
barclays calls these people " nevertirees . "
unlike many americans compelled into early retirement by company restrictions , the average nevertiree often has no one forcing his hand .
if 106 - year-old investor irving kahn , head of his own family firm , wants to keep coming to work every day .
who's going to stop him ?
seventy-eight-year-old supreme court justice ruth bader ginsburg's job security is guaranteed in the constitution .
it may seem that these elderly people are trying to cheat death .
in fact , they are .
and it's working .
howard friedman , a professor at uc riverside , found in his research that those who work hardest and are successful in their careers often live the longest lives .
" people are generally being given bad advice to slow down , take it easy , stop worrying , and retire to florida , " he says .
he described one study participant , still working at the age of 100 , who was recently disappointed to see his son retire .
" we're beginning to see a change in how people view retirement , " says george leeson , co-director of the institute of population ageing at oxford .
where once retirement was seen as a brief reward after a long struggle through some miserable job , it is now akin to being cast aside .
what leeson terms " the warren buffett effect " is becoming more broadly appealing as individuals come to " view retirement as not simply being linked to economic productivity but also about contribution . "
observers are split on whether this is a wholly good thing .
on the one hand , companies and financial firms can benefit from the wisdom of a resilient chief .
on the other , the new generation can find it more difficult to advance-an argument that typically holds little sway to a nevertiree .
when we talk about americans barely into adulthood who are saddled with unbearable levels of debt , the conversation is almost always about student loan debt .
but there's a growing body of evidence suggesting that today's young adults are also drowning in credit-card debt and that many of them will take this debt to their graves .
more than 20 % overspent their income by more than $ 100 every single month .
since they haven't built up their credit histories yet , it's a safe bet that these young adults are paying relatively high interest rates on the resulting credit card debt .
although many young people blame " socializing " as a barrier to saving money , most of them aren't knocking back $ 20 drinks in trendy lounges .
they're struggling with much more daily financial demands .
to a disturbingly large extent , the young and the broke are relying on credit cards to make it until their next payday .
this obviously isn't sustainable in the long run .
and it's going to put a huge drag on their spending power even after they reach their peak earning years , because they'll still be paying interest on that bottle of orange juice or box of spaghetti they bought a decade earlier .
a new study out of ohio state university found that young adults are accumulating credit card debt at a more rapid rate than other age groups , and that they're slower at paying it off .
" if what we found continues to hold true , we may have more elderly people with substantial financial problems in the future , " warns lucia dunn , professor of economics at ohio state .
" if our findings persist , we may be faced with a financial crisis among elderly people who can't pay off their credit cards . "
dunn says a lot of these young people are never going to get out from under their credit card debt .
" many people are borrowing on credit cards so heavily that payoff rates at these levels are not sufficient to recover their credit card debt by the end of their life , which could have loss implications for the credit card issuing banks . "
a mess on the ladder of success
a ) throughout american history there has almost always been at least one central economic narrative that gave the ambitious or unsatisfied reason to pack up and seek their fortune elsewhere .
for the first 300 or so years of european settlement , the story was about moving outward : getting immigrants to the continent and then to the frontier to clear the prairies , drain the wetlands and build new cities .
b ) by the end of the 19th century , as the frontier vanished , the us had a mild panic attack .
what would this energetic , enterprising country be without new lands to conquer ?
some people , such as teddy roosevelt , decided to keep on conquering ( cuba , the philippines , etc .
) , but eventually , in industrialization , the us found a new narrative of economic mobility at home .
from the 1890s to the 1960s , people moved from farm to city , first in the north and then in the south .
in fact , by the 1950s , there was enough prosperity and white-collar work that many began to move to the suburbs .
as the population aged , there was also a shift from the cold rust belt to the comforts of the sun belt .
we think of this as an old person's migration , but it created many jobs for the young in construction and health care , not to mention tourism , retail and restaurants .
c ) for the last 20 years from the end of the cold war through two burst bubbles in a single decade-the us has been casting about for its next economic narrative .
and now it is experiencing another period of panic , which is bad news for much of the workforce but particularly for its youngest members .
d ) the us has always been a remarkably mobile country , but new data from the census bureau indicate that mobility has reached its lowest level in recorded history .
sure , some people are stuck in homes valued at less than their mortgages , but many young people-who don't own homes and don't yet have families-are staying put , too .
this suggests , among other things , that people aren't packing up for new economic opportunities the way they used to .
rather than dividing the country into the 1 percenters versus ( ... ) everyone else , the split in our economy is really between two other classes : the mobile and immobile .
e ) part of the problem is that the country's largest industries are in decline .
in the past , it was perfectly clear where young people should go for work ( chicago in the 1870s , detroit in the 1910s , houston in the 1970s ) and , more or less , what they'd be doing when they got there ( killing cattle , building cars , selling oil ) .
and these industries were large enough to offer jobs to each class of worker , from unskilled laborer to manager or engineer .
today , the few bright spots in our economy are relatively small ( though some promise future growth ) and decentralized .
there are great jobs in silicon valley , in the biotech research capitals of boston and raleigh-durham and in advanced manufacturing plants along the southern z - 85 corridor .
these companies recruit all over the country and the globe for workers with specific abilities .
( you don't need to be the next mark zuckerberg , founder of facebook .
to get a job in one of the microhubs , by the way .
but you will almost certainly need at least a b .
a . in computer science or a year or two at a technical school . )
this newer , select job market is national , and it offers members of the mobile class competitive salaries and higher bargaining power .
f ) many members of the immobile class , on the other hand , live in the america of the gloomy headlines .
if you have no specialized skills , there's little reason to uproot to another state and be the last in line for a low-paying job at a new auto plant or a green-energy startup .
the surprise in the census data , however , is that the immobile workforce is not limited to unskilled workers .
in fact , many have a college degree .
g ) until now , a b .
a . in any subject was a near-guarantee of at least middle-class wages .
but today , a quarter of college graduates make less than the typical worker without a bachelor's degree .
david autor , a prominent labor economist at m . i . t . , recently told me that a college degree alone is no longer a guarantor of a good job .
while graduates from top universities are still likely to get a good job no matter what their major is , he said , graduates from less-famous schools are going to be judged on what they know .
to compete for jobs on a national level , they should be armed with the skills that emerging industries need , whether technical or not .
h ) those without such specialized skills-like poetry , or even history , majors-are already competing with their neighbors for the same sorts of second-rate , poorer-paying local jobs like low-level management or big-box retail sales .
and with the low-skilled labor market atomized into thousands of microeconomics , immobile workers are less able to demand better wages or conditions or to acquire valuable skills .
i ) so what , exactly , should the ambitious young worker of today be learning ?
unfortunately , it's hard to say , since the us doesn't have one clear national project .
there are plenty of emerging , smaller industries , but which ones are the most promising ?
( nanotechnology's moment of remarkable growth seems to have been 5 years into the future for something like 20 years now . )
it's not clear exactly what skills are most needed or if they will even be valuable in a decade .
j ) what is clear is that all sorts of government issues--education .
health-insurance portability , worker retraining-are no longer just bonuses to already prosperous lives but existential requirements .
it's in all of our interests to make sure that as many people as possible are able to move toward opportunity , and america's ability to invest people and money in exciting new ideas is still greater than that of most other wealthy countries .
( as recently as five years ago , us migration was twice the rate of european union states . )
that , at least , is some comfort at a time when our national economy seems to be searching for its next story line .
a new study shows a large gender gap on economic policy among the nation's professional economists , a divide similar to the gender divide found in the general public .
" as a group , we are pro-market . "
says ann mari may .
co-author of the study and a university of nebraska economist .
" but women are more likely to accept government regulation and involvement in economic activity than our male colleagues . "
" it's very puzzling , " says free market economist veronique de rugy of the mercatus center at george mason university .
" not a day goes by that i don't ask myself why there are so few women economists on the free market side . "
a native of france , de rugy supported government intervention early in her life but changed her mind after studying economics .
" we want many of the same things as liberals-less poverty , more health care-but have radically different ideas on how to achieve it . "
liberal economist dean baker , co-founder of the center for economic policy and research , says male economists have been on the inside of the profession , confirming each other's anti-regulation views .
women , as outsiders , " are more likely to think independently or at least see people outside of the economics profession as forming their peer group , " he says .
the gender balance in economics is changing .
one-third of economics doctorates now go to women .
" more diversity is needed at the table when public policy is discussed , " may says .
economists do agree on some things .
female economists agree with men that europe has too much regulation and that wal-mart is good for society .
male economists agree with their female colleagues that military spending is too high .
the genders are most divorced from each other on the question of equality for women .
male economists overwhelmingly think the wage gap between men and women is largely the result of individuals ' skills , experience and voluntary choices .
female economists overwhelmingly disagree by a margin of 4 - to - 1 .
the biggest disagreement : 76 % of women say faculty opportunities in economics favor men .
male economists point the opposite way : 80 % say women are favored or the process is neutral .
the number of postgraduate students travelling from non-eu countries to study at uk universities has fallen for the first time in 16 years , fuelling fears that the government's immigration crackdown is discouraging thousands of the brightest students from continuing their studies in britain .
jo beall , british council director of education and society , said the fall would cause alarm among uk vice-chancellors .
" the sector was expecting a decline in growth , but the actual reduction in postgraduate numbers is of real concern as international students make up the majority of numbers in many postgraduate courses and research teams in science , technology , engineering and mathematics . "
" attracting the brightest and most ambitious postgraduate and research students is critical if the uk is to maintain its quality reputation for research , " beall said .
universities get a third of their tuition fee revenue from non-eu students .
there is growing fear among vice-chancellors that this revenue-as well as the cultural , academic and economic benefit international students bring-is being put at risk .
tim westlake , director for the student experience at manchester university , said students whose families relied on them working in the uk after their studies to gain experience and repay the fees were starting to look elsewhere .
last month the home secretary .
theresa may .
announced that embassy staff would interview more than 100 000 applicants in an attempt to prevent bogus ones entering the country .
she also said immigrants were responsible for pushing up uk house prices .
the comments followed the introduction of new limitations on students ' right to work during and after their studies .
beall said : " government statistics for the first time provide real evidence that the changes to uk visa regulations may have discouraged many students from applying to the uk .
and in particular postgraduate students who are so important to the uk's research output .
the uk enjoys an excellent reputation around the world for the high quality of our education system , so the government needs to ensure that institutions have all the support they need to attract international students who make a tremendous academic , cultural and economic contribution to the uk . "
the rise of the sharing economy
a ) last night 40 000 people rented accommodation from a service that offers 250 000 rooms in 30 000 cities in 192 countries .
they chose their rooms and paid for everything online .
but their beds were provided by private individuals , rather than a hotel chain .
hosts and guests were matched up by airbnb , a firm based in san francisco .
since its launch in 2008 more than 4 million people have used it 2.5 million of them in 2012 alone .
it is the most prominent example of a huge new " sharing economy " , in which people rent beds , cars , boats and other assets directly from each other , co-ordinated via the internet .
b ) you might think this is no different from running a bed-and-breakfast , owning a timeshare or participating in a car pool .
but technology has reduced transaction costs , making sharing assets cheaper and easier than ever-and therefore possible on a much larger scale .
the big change is the availability of more data about people and things , which allows physical assets to be divided and consumed as services .
before the internet , renting a surfboard , a power tool or a parking space from someone else was feasible , but was usually more trouble than it was worth .
now websites such as airbnb , relay rides and snapgoods match up owners and renters ; smartphones with gps let people sec where the nearest rentable car is parked ; social networks provide a way to check up on people and build trust ; and online payment systems handle the billing .
what's mine is yours , for a fee
c ) just as peer-to-peer businesses like ebay allow anyone to become a retailer , sharing sites let individuals act as an ad hoc taxi service , car-hire firm or boutique hotel as and when it suits them .
just go online or download an app .
the model works for items that are expensive to buy and are widely owned by people who do not make full use of them .
bedrooms and cars are the most obvious examples , but you can also rent camping spaces in sweden , fields in australia and washing machines in france .
as advocates of the sharing economy like to put it , access trumps ownership .
d ) rachel botsman , the author of a book on the subject , says the consumer peer-to-peer rental market alone is worth $ 26 billion .
broader definitions of the sharing economy include peer-to-peer lending or putting a solar panel on your roof and selling power back to the grid .
and it is not just individuals : the web makes it easier for companies to rent out spare offices and idle machines , too .
but the core of the sharing economy is people renting things from each other .
e ) such " collaborative consumption " is a good thing for several reasons .
owners make money from underused assets .
airbnb says hosts in san francisco who rent out their homes do so for an average of 58 nights a year , making $ 9300 .
car owners who rent their vehicles to others using relayrides make an average of $ 250 a month ; some make more than $ 1000 .
renters , meanwhile , pay less than they would if they bought the item themselves , or turned to a traditional provider such as a hotel or car-hire firm .
and there are environmental benefits , too : renting a car when you need it , rather than owning one , means fewer cars are required and fewer resources must be devoted to making them .
f ) for sociable souls , meeting new people by staying in their homes is part of the charm .
curmudgeons who imagine that every renter is a murderer can still stay at conventional hotels .
for others , the web fosters trust .
as well as the background checks carried out by platform owners , online reviews and ratings are usually posted by both parties to each transaction , which makes it easy to spot bad drivers , bathrobe-thieves and surfboard-wreckers .
by using facebook and other social networks , participants can check each other out and identify friends ( or friends of friends ) in common .
an airbnb user had her apartment trashed in 2011 .
but the remarkable thing is how well the system usually works .
peering into the future
g ) the sharing economy is a little like online shopping , which started in america 15 years ago .
at first , people were worried about security .
but having made a successful purchase from , say , amazon , they felt safe buying elsewhere .
similarly , using airbnb or a car-hire service for the first time encourages people to try other offerings .
next , consider ebay .
having started out as a peer-to-peer marketplace , it is now dominated by professional " power sellers " ( many of whom started out as ordinary ebay users ) .
the same may happen with the sharing economy , which also provides new opportunities for enterprise .
some people have bought cars solely to rent them out , for example .
h ) existing rental businesses are getting involved too .
avis , a car-hire firm , has a share in a sharing rival .
so do gm and daimler , two carmakers .
in future , companies may develop hybrid models , listing excess capacity ( whether vehicles , equipment or office space ) on peer-to-peer rental sites .
in the past , new ways of doing things online have not displaced the old ways entirely .
but they have often changed them .
just as internet shopping forced wal-mart and tesco to adapt , so online sharing will shake up transport , tourism , equipment-hire and more .
i ) the main worry is regulatory uncertainty .
will room-renters be subject to hotel taxes , for example ?
in amsterdam officials are using airbnb listings to track down unlicensed hotels .
in some american cities , peer-to-peer taxi services have been banned after lobbying by traditional taxi firms .
the danger is that although some rules need to be updated to protect consumers from harm , existing rental businesses will try to destroy competition .
people who rent out rooms should pay tax , of course , but they should not be regulated like a ritz-carlton hotel .
the lighter rules that typically govern bed-and-breakfasts are more than adequate .
j ) the sharing economy is the latest example of the internet's value to consumers .
this emerging model is now big and disruptive enough for regulators and companies to have woken up to it .
that is a sign of its immense potential .
it is time to start caring about sharing .
in recent years , a growing body of research has shown that our appetite and food intake are influenced by a large number of factors besides our biological need for energy , including our eating environment and our perception of the food in front of us .
studies have shown , for instance , that eating in front of the tv ( or a similar distraction ) can increase both hunger and the amount of food consumed .
even simple visual cues , like plate size and lighting , have been shown to affect portion size and consumption .
a new study suggested that our short-term memory also may play a role in appetite .
several hours after a meal , people's hunger levels were predicted not by how much they'd eaten but rather by how much food they'd seen in front of them-in other words , how much they remembered eating .
this disparity suggests the memory of our previous meal may have a bigger influence on our appetite than the actual size of the meal , says jeffrey m . brunstrom , a professor of experimental psychology at the university of bristol .
" hunger isn't controlled solely by the physical characteristics of a recent meal .
we have identified an independent role for memory for that meal , " brunstrom says .
" this shows that the relationship between hunger and food intake is more complex than we thought . "
these findings echo earlier research that suggests our perception of food can sometimes trick our body's response to the food itself .
in a 2011 study , for instance , people who drank the same 380 - calorie milkshake on two separate occasions produced different levels of hunger-related hormones , depending on whether the shake's label said it contained 620 or 140 calories .
moreover , the participants reported feeling more full when they thought they'd consumed a higher-calorie shake .
what does this mean for our eating habits ?
although it hardly seems practical to trick ourselves into eating less , the new findings do highlight the benefits of focusing on our food and avoiding tv and multitasking while eating .
the so-called mindful-eating strategies can fight distractions and help us control our appetite , brunstrom says .
as a society we might want to rethink the time and money spent on education , so that these resources can benefit a greater percentage of the population .
ideally , both high schools and colleges can prepare individuals for the ever-changing roles that are likely to be expected of them .
high school degrees offer far less in the way of preparation for work than they might , or than many other nations currently offer , creating a growing skills gap in our economy .
we encourage students to go on to college whether they are prepared or not .
or have a clear sense of purpose or interest , and now have the highest college dropout rate in the world .
we might look to other countries for models of how high schools can offer better training , as well as the development of a work ethic and the intellectual skills needed for continued learning and development .
1 recommend harvard's 2011 " pathways to prosperity " report for more attention to the " forgotten half " ( those who do not go on to college ) and ideas about how to address this issue .
simultaneously , the liberal arts become more important than ever .
in a knowledge economy where professional roles change rapidly and many college students are preparing for positions that may not even exist yet , the skill set needed is one that prepares them for change and continued learning .
learning to express ideas well in both writing and speech , knowing how to find information , and knowing how to do research are all solid background skills for a wide variety of roles , and such training is more important than any particular major in a liberal arts college .
we need to continue to value broad preparation in thinking skills that will serve for a lifetime .
students also need to learn to work independently and to make responsible decisions .
the lengthening path to adulthood appears exacerbated by parental involvement in the college years .
given the rising investment in college education , parental concern is not surprising , but learning where and when to intervene will help students take more ownership of the outcomes of these increasingly costly educations .
the end of the book ?
a ) amazon , by far the largest bookseller in the country , reported on may 19 that it is now selling more books in its electronic kindle format than in the old paper-and-ink format .
that is remarkable , considering that the kindle has only been around for four years .
e-books now account for 14 percent of all book sales in this country and are increasing far faster than overall book sales .
e-book sales are up 146 percent over last year , while hardback sales increased 6 percent and paperbacks decreased 8 percent .
b ) does this spell the doom of the physical book ?
certainly not immediately , and perhaps not at all .
what it does mean is that the book business will go through a transformation in the next decade or so more profound than any it has seen since gutenberg introduced printing from moveable type in the 1450s .
c ) physical books will surely become much rarer in the marketplace .
mass market paperbacks , which have been declining for years anyway , will probably disappear , as will hardbacks for mysteries , thrillers , " romance fiction , " etc .
such books , which only rarely end up in permanent collections , either private or public , will probably only be available as e-books within a few years .
hardback and trade paperbacks for " serious " nonfiction and fiction will surely last longer .
perhaps it will become the mark of an author to reckon with that he or she is still published in hard copy .
d ) as for children's books , who knows ?
children's books are like dog food in that the purchasers are not the consumers , so the market ( and the marketing ) is inherently strange .
e ) for clues to the book's future , let's look at some examples of technological change and see what happened to the old technology .
f ) one technology replaces another only because the new technology is better , cheaper , or both .
the greater the difference , the sooner and more thoroughly the new technology replaces the old .
printing with moveable type on paper dramatically reduced the cost of producing a book compared with the old-fashioned ones handwritten on vellum , which comes from sheepskin .
a bible-to be sure , a long book-required vellum made from 300 sheepskins and countless man-hours of labor .
before printing arrived , a bible cost more than a middle-class house .
there were perhaps 50,000 books in all of europe in 1450 .
by 1500 there were 10 million .
g ) but while printing quickly caused the handwritten book to die out , handwriting lingered on well into the 16th century .
very special books are still occasionally produced on vellum , but they are one-of-a-kind show pieces .
h ) sometimes a new technology doesn't drive the old one out , but only parts of it while forcing the rest to evolve .
the movies were widely predicted to drive live theater out of the marketplace , but they didn't , because theater turned out to have qualities movies could not reproduce .
equally , tv was supposed to replace movies but , again , did not .
i ) movies did , however , fatally impact some parts of live theater .
and while tv didn't kill movies , it did kill second-rate pictures , shorts , and cartoons .
j ) nor did tv kill radio .
comedy and drama shows ( " jack benny , " " amos and andy , " " the shadow " ) all migrated to television .
but because you can't drive a car and watch television at the same time , rush hour became radio's prime time , while music , talk , and news radio greatly enlarged their audiences .
radio is today a very different business than in the late 1940s and a much larger one .
k ) sometimes old technology lingers for centuries because of its symbolic power .
mounted cavalry replaced the chariot on the battlefield around 1000 bc .
but chariots maintained their place in parades and triumphs right up until the end of the roman empire 1,500 years later .
the sword hasn't had a military function for a hundred years , but is still part of an officer's full - dress uniform , precisely because a sword always symbolized " an officer and a gentleman . "
l ) sometimes new technology is a little cranky at first .
television repairman was a common occupation in the 1950s , for instance .
and so the old technology remains as a backup .
steamships captured the north atlantic passenger business from sail in the 1840s because of its much greater speed .
but steamships didn't lose their sails until the 1880s , because early marine engines had a nasty habit of breaking down .
until ships became large enough ( and engines small enough ) to mount two engines side by side , they needed to keep sails .
( the high cost of steam and the lesser need for speed kept the majority of the world's ocean freight moving by sail until the early years of the 20th century . )
m ) then there is the fireplace .
central heating was present in every upper - and middle-class home by the second half of the 19th century .
but functioning fireplaces remain to this day a powerful selling point in a house or apartment .
i suspect the reason is a deep-rooted love of lire .
fire was one of the earliest major technological advances for humankind , providing heat , protection , and cooked food ( which is much easier to eat and digest ) .
human control of fire goes back far enough ( over a million years ) that evolution could have produced a genetic leaning towards fire as a central aspect of human life .
n ) books-especially books the average person could afford-haven't been around long enough to produce evolutionary change in humans .
but they have a powerful hold on many people nonetheless , a hold extending far beyond their literary content .
at their best , they are works of art and there is a tactile pleasure in books necessarily lost in e-book versions .
the ability to quickly thumb through pages is also lost .
and a room with books in it induces , at least in some , a feeling not dissimilar to that of a fire in the fireplace on a cold winter's night .
o ) for these reasons i think physical books will have a longer existence as a commercial product than some currently predict .
like swords , books have symbolic power .
like fireplaces , they induce a sense of comfort and warmth .
and , perhaps , similar to sails , they make a useful backup for when the lights go out .
the question of whether our government should promote science and technology or the liberal arts in higher education isn't an either / or proposition , although the current emphasis on preparing young americans for stem ( science , technology , engineering , maths ) related fields can make it seem that way .
the latest congressional report acknowledges the critical importance of technical training , but also asserts that the study of the humanities and social sciences must remain central components of america's educational system at all levels .
both areas are critical to producing citizens who can participate effectively in our democratic society , become innovative leaders , and benefit from the spiritual enrichment that the reflection on the great ideas of mankind over time provides .
parents and students who have invested heavily in higher education worry about graduates ' job prospects as technological advances and changes in domestic and global markets transform professions in ways that reduce wages and cut jobs .
under these circumstances , it's natural to look for what may appear to be the most " practical " way out of the problem : " major in a subject designed to get you a job " seems the obvious answer to some , though this ignores the fact that many disciplines in the humanities characterized as " soft " often , in fact , lead to employment and success in the long run .
indeed , according to surveys , employers have expressed a preference for students who have received a broadly-based education that has taught them to write well , think critically , research creatively , and communicate easily .
moreover , students should be prepared not just for their first job , but for their 4th and 5th jobs , as there's little reason to doubt that people entering the workforce today will be called upon to play many different roles over the course of their careers .
the ones who will do the best in this new environment will be those whose educations have prepared them to be flexible .
the ability to draw upon every available tool and insight-picked up from science , arts , and technology-to solve the problems of the future , and take advantage of the opportunities that present themselves , will be helpful to them and the united states .
energy independence .
it has a nice ring to it , doesn't it ?
if you think so , you're not alone , because energy independence has been the dream of american presidents for decades , and never more so than in the past few years , when the most recent oil price shock has been partly responsible for kicking off the great recession .
" energy independence " and its rhetorical companion " energy security " are , however , slippery concepts that are rarely thought through .
what is it we want independence from , exactly ?
most people would probably say that they want to be independent from imported oil .
but there are reasons that we buy all that oil from elsewhere .
the first reason is that we need it to keep our economy running .
yes , there is a trickle of biofuel available , and more may become available , but most biofuels cause economic waste and environmental destruction .
second , americans have basically decided that they don't really want to produce all their own oil .
they value the environmental quality they preserve over their oil imports from abroad .
vast areas of the united states are off-limits to oil exploration and production in the name of environmental protection .
to what extent are americans really willing to endure the environmental impacts of domestic energy production in order to cut back imports ?
third , there are benefits to trade .
it allows for economic efficiency , and when we buy things from places that have lower production costs than we do , we benefit .
and although you don't read about this much , the united states is also a large exporter of oil products , selling about 2 million barrels of petroleum products per day to about 90 countries .
there is no question that the united states imports a great deal of energy and , in fact , relies on that steady flow to maintain its economy .
when that flow is interrupted , we feel the pain in short supplies and higher prices .
at the same time , we derive massive economic benefits when we buy the most affordable energy on the world market and when we engage in energy trade around the world .
i cry , therefore i am
a ) in 2008 , at a german zoo , a gorilla named gana gave birth to a male infant , who died after three months .
photographs of gana , looking stricken and inconsolable , attracted crowds to the zoo .
sad as the scene was , the humans , not gana , were the only ones crying .
the notion that animals can weep has no scientific basis .
years of observations by biologists dian fossey , who observed gorillas , and jane goodall , who worked with chimpanzees , could not prove that animals cry tears from emotion .
b ) it's true that many animals shed tears , especially in response to pain .
tears protect the eye by keeping it moist .
but crying as an expression of feeling is unique to humans and has played an essential role in human evolution and the development of human cultures .
c ) within two days an infant can imitate sad and happy faces .
if an infant does not cry out , it is unlikely to get the attention it needs to survive .
around 3 months , the relationship between the human infant and its environment takes on a more organized communicative role , and tearful crying begins to serve interpersonal purposes : the search for comfort and pacification .
as we get older , crying becomes a tool of social interaction ; grief and joy , shame and pride , fear and manipulation .
d ) tears are as universal as laughter , and grief is more complex than joy .
but although we all cry , we do so in different ways .
women cry more frequently and intensely than men , especially when exposed to emotional events .
like crying , depression is , around the world , more commonly seen in women than in men .
one explanation might be that women , who despite decades of social advances still suffer from economic inequality , discrimination and even violence , might have more to cry about .
men not only cry for shorter periods than women , but they also are less inclined to explain their tears , usually shed them more quietly , and tend more frequently to apologize when they cry openly .
men , like women , report crying at the death of a loved one and in response to a moving religious experience .
they are more likely than women to cry when their core identities-as providers and protectors , as fathers and fighters-are questioned .
e ) people who score on personality tests as more sympathetic cry more than those who are more rigid or have more self-control .
frequency of crying varies widely : some shed tears at any novel or movie , others only a handful of times in their lives .
crying in response to stress and conflict in the home , or after emotional trauma , lasts much longer than tears induced by everyday sadness-which in turn last longer than tears of delight and joy .
f ) sadness is our primary association with crying , but the fact is that people report feeling happier after crying .
surveys estimate that 85 % of women and 73 % of men report feeling better after shedding tears .
surprisingly , crying is more commonly associated with minor forms of depression than with major depression involving suicidal thoughts .
g ) people widely report that crying relieves tension , restores emotional balance and provides " catharsis , " a washing out of bad feelings .
the term " catharsis " has religious implications of removing evil and sin ; it's no surprise that religious ceremonies are , around the world , one of the main settings for the release of tears .
h ) crying is a nearly universal sign of grief , though some mourners report that , despite genuine sorrow , they cannot shed tears-sometimes even for years after their loved one has gone .
unlike today , when the privacy of grief is more respected , the public or ceremonial shedding of tears , at the graveside of a spouse or the funeral of a king or queen , was once considered socially or even politically essential .
i ) crying has also served other social purposes .
rousseau wrote in his confessions that while he considered tears the most , powerful expression of love , he also just liked to cry over nothing .
j ) the association of tears with art has ancient roots .
the classic greek tragedies of the fifth century b . c . were primarily celebrations of gods .
tragedies , like poetry and music , were staged religious events .
even then it was recognized that crying in response to drama brought pleasure .
k ) i have argued that there are neurobiological associations linking the arts and mood disorders .
when i lecture on crying , i ask my audience to let me know , by a show of hands , which art forms most move them to tears .
about 80 % say music , followed closely by novels ( 74 % ) , but then the figures fail sharply , to 43 % , for poetry , and 10 - 22 % for paintings , sculpture and architecture .
l ) the physical act of crying is mainly one of breathing in air , which is why we choke up when we weep .
this suggests to language scientists that emotional crying evolved before language , perhaps explaining why tears communicate states of mind and feelings that are often so difficult to express in words .
of course , from an evolutionary perspective , recognition of emotion ( usually through facial gesture ) was essential for survival .
m ) the earliest humans arrived several million years ago , but only 150,000 to 200,000 years ago , did cultures , language , religion and the arts arise .
along the way , tears became more than a biological necessity to lubricate the eye and developed into a sign of intense emotion and a signal of social bonding .
the development of self-consciousness and the notion of individual identity , or ego ; storytelling about the origins of the world , the creation of humanity and life after death ; and the ability to feel others ' sadness-all were critical parts of the neurobiological changes that made us human .
n ) more recently , we've learned from neuroscience that certain brain circuits are activated , rapidly and unconsciously , when we see another in emotional distress .
in short , our brain evolved circuits to allow us to experience sympathy , which in turn made civilization , and an ethics based on sympathy , possible .
so the next time you reach a tissue box , or sob on a friend's shoulder , or shed tears at the movies , stop and reflect on why we cry and what it means to cry .
because ultimately , while we love to cry , we also cry to love .
hospitals , hoping to curb medical error , have invested heavily to put computers , smartphones and other devices into the hands of medical staff for instant access to patient data , drug information and case studies .
but like many cures , this solution has come with an unintended side effect : doctors and nurses can be focused on the screen and not the patient , even during moments of critical care .
a poll showed that half of medical technicians had admitted texting during a procedure .
this phenomenon has set off an intensifying discussion at hospitals and medical schools about a problem perhaps best described as " distracted doctoring . "
in response , some hospitals have begun limiting the use of electronic devices in critical settings , while schools have started reminding medical students to focus on patients instead of devices .
" you justify carrying devices around the hospital to do medical records , but you can surf the internet or do facebook , and sometimes facebook is more tempting , " said dr . peter papadakos at the university of rochester medical center .
" my gut filing is lives are in danger , " said dr . papadakos , " we're not educating people about the problem , and it's getting worse . "
a survey of 439 medical technicians found that 55 percent of technicians who monitor bypass machines acknowledged that they had talked on cellphones during heart surgery .
half said they had texted while in surgery .
the study concluded , " such distractions have the potential to be disastrous . "
medical professionals have always faced interruptions from cellphones , and multitasking is simply a fact of life for many medical jobs .
what has changed , say doctors , especially younger ones , is that they face increasing pressure to interact with their devices .
the pressure stems from a mantra of modem medicine that patient care must be " data driven , " and informed by the latest , instantly accessible information .
by many accounts , the technology has helped reduce medical error by providing instant access to patient data or prescription details .
dr . peter carmel , president of the american medical association , said technology " offers great potential in health care , " but he added that doctors ' first priority should be with the patient .
i have closely watched my generation , known as i he millennials , for 29 years now , joel stem wrote an extensive piece on millennials and he remains rather optimistic about our potential .
i hesitate to share his optimism because of a paradox we seem to exhibit , namely , that there are more avenues for us to entertain ourselves than ever before , yet we are more bored than ever before .
entertainment has never been more varied .
we have more cable channels , television shows , and movies than ever before .
internet providers allow instant viewing of almost any movie or television program ever created .
social drinking and partying are also widely available for millennials .
every generation develops these habits at a certain age , but millennials seem to be extending this phase of life as they postpone marriage .
some of this is undoubtedly due to the great recession .
millennials are having a difficult time finding jobs ; only 47 percent of 16 - to - 24 - year-olds are employed , the smallest share since government started recording data in 1948 .
but do millennial * respond to these economic troubles by doing whatever it takes to make ends meet ?
hardly , in fact , of the four generations pew research has data for , the millennial generation does not cite work ethic as distinctive of itself .
millennials want to save the world , but they sit and wait for that world-changing opportunity to be handed to them .
instead of working 2-3 jobs , launching a business , or doing what it takes to succeed , they retreat .
millennials may be the first generation to have a lower standard of living than their parents , but with this response to adversity , perhaps deservingly so .
much ink has been spilled in management books discussing how to get the most out of these youths in the workplace .
largely , they come to the same conclusion ; millennials are entitled , over-confident , and expect too much too quickly .
we should not be surprised .
today's young adults were raised by parents who made sure to boost their self-esteem at every turn , telling them they could achieve whatever they set their minds to , and handing out prizes for the sixth place .
amazon , by far the largest bookseller in the country , reported on may 19 that it is now selling more books in its electronic kindle format than in the old paper-and-ink format .
e-books now account for 14 percent of all book sales in the country and are increasing far faster than overall book sales .
does this spell the doom of the physical book ?
physical books will surely become much rarer in the marketplace .
as for children ’ s books , who knows ?
children ’ s books are like dog food in that the purchasers are not the consumers , so the market ( and the marketing ) is inherently strange .
for clues to the book ’ s future , let ’ s look at some examples of technological change and see what happened to the old technology .
one technology replaces another only because the new technology is better , cheaper , or both .
a bible — to be sure , a long book — required vellum made from 300 sheepskins and countless man-hours of labor .
but while printing quickly caused the hand written book to die out , handwriting lingered on well into the 16th century .
sometimes a new technology doesn ’ t drive the old one out , but only parts of it while forcing the rest to evolve .
the movies were widely predicted to drive live theater out of the marketplace , but they didn ’ t , because theater turned out to have qualities movies could not reproduce .
movies did , however , fatally impact some parts of live theater .
and while tv didn ’ t kill movies , it did kill second-rate pictures , shorts , and cartoons .
nor did tv kill radio .
but because you can ’ t drive a car and watch television at the same time , rush hour became radio ’ s prime , while music , talk , and news radio greatly enlarged their audiences .
sometimes old technology lingers for centuries because of its symbolic power .
the sword hasn ’ t had a military function for a hundred years , but is still part of an officer ’ s full-dress uniform , precisely because a sword always symbolized " an officer and a gentleman . "
sometimes new technology is a little cranky at first .
but steamships didn ’ t lose their sails until the 1880s , because early marine engines had a nasty habit of breaking down .
( the high cost of steam and the lesser need for speed kept the majority of the world ’ s ocean freight moving by sail until the early years of the 20th century . )
then there is the fireplace .
central heating was present in every upper-and middle-class home by the second half of the 19th century .
i suspect the reason is a deep-rooted love of the fire .
fire was one of the earliest major technological advances for humankind , providing heat , protection , and cooked food ( which is much easier to cat and digest ) .
books — especially books the average person could afford — haven ’ t been around long enough to produce evolutionary change in humans .
at their best , they are works of art and there is a tactilepleasure in books necessarily lost in e-book versions .
and a room with books in it induces , at least in some , a feeling not dissimilar to that of a fire in the fireplace on a cold winter ’ s night .
for these reasons i think physical books will have a longer existence as a commercial product than some currently predict .
and , perhaps , similar to sails , they make a useful back-up for when the lights go out .
the question of whether our government should promote science and technology or the liberal arts in higher education isn ’ t an either / or proposition ， although the current emphasis on preparing young americans for stem ( science , technology , engineering , maths ) - related fields can make it seem that way .
the latest congressional report acknowledges the critical importance of technical training , but also asserts that the study of the humanities and social sciences must remain central components of america ’ s educational system at all levels .
both are critical to producing citizens who can participate effectively in our democratic society , become innovativeleaders , and benefit from the spiritual enrichment that the reflection on the great ideas of mankind over time provides .
parents and students who have invested heavily in higher education worry about graduates ’ job prospects as technological advances and changes in domestic and global markets transform professions in ways that reduce wages and cut jobs .
under these circumstances , it ’ s natural to look for what may appear to be the most " practical " way out of the problem " major in a subject designed to get you a job " seems the obvious answer to some , though this ignores the fact that many disciplines in the humanities characterized as " soft " often , in fact , lead to employment and success in the long run .
moreover , students should be prepared not just for their first job , but for their 4th and 5th jobs , as there ’ s little reason to doubt that people entering the workforce today will be called upon to play many different roles over the course of their careers .
the ability to draw upon every available tool and insight — picked up from science , arts , and technology — to solve the problems of the future , and take advantage of the opportunities that present themselves , will be helpful to them and the united states .
it has a nice ring to it .
doesn ’ t it ?
if you think so , you ’ re not alone , because energy independence has been the dream of american president for decades , and never more so than in the past few years , when the most recent oil price shock has been partly responsible for kicking off the great recession .
" energy independence " and its rhetorical companion " energy security " are , however , slippery concepts that are rarely though through .
but there are reasons that we buy all that old from elsewhere .
yes , there is a trickleof biofuelavailable , and more may become available , but most biofuels cause economic waste and environmental destruction .
second , americans have basically decided that they don ’ t really want to produce all their own oil .
and although you don ’ t read about this much , the united states is also a large exporter of oil products , selling about 2 million barrels of petroleum products per day to about 90 countries .
when that flow is interrupted , we feel the pain in short supplies and higher prices , at the same time , we derive massive economic benefits when we buy the most affordable energy on the world market and when we engage in energy trade around the world .
growing up colored
you wouldn't know piedmont anymore — my piedmont , i mean — the town in west virginiawhere i learned to be a colored boy .
the 1950s in piedmont was atime to remember , or at least to me .
people were alwaysproud to be from piedmont — lying at the foot of a mountain , on the banks of the mightypotomac .
we knew god gave america no more beautiful location .
i never knew colored peopleanywhere who were crazier about mountains and water , flowers and trees , fishing and hunting.for as long as anyone could remember , we could outhunt , outshoot , and outswim the whiteboys in the valley .
the social structure of piedmont was something we knew like the back of our hands .
it wasan immigrant town ; white piedmont was italian and irish , with a handful of wealthy wasps on east hampshire street , and " ethnic " neighborhoods of working-class people everywhere else , colored and white .
for as long as anyone can remember , piedmont's character has been completely bound upwith the westvaco paper mill : its prosperous past and doubtful future .
at first glance , thetown is a typical dying mill center .
many once beautiful buildings stand empty , evidencing abygone time of spirit and pride .
the big houses on east hampshire street are no longerproud , as they were when i was a kid .
like the italians and the irish , most of the colored people migrated to piedmont at the turnof the 20th century to work at the paper mill , which opened in 1888 .
all the colored men at thepaper mill worked on " the platform " — loading paper into trucks until the craft unions werefinally integrated in 1968 .
loading is what daddy did every working day of his life .
that's whatalmost every colored grown-up i knew did .
colored people lived in three neighborhoods that were clearly separated .
welcome to thecolored zone , a large stretched banner could have said .
and it felt good in there , like walkingaround your house in bare feet and underwear , or snoring right out loud on the couch in front ofthe tv — enveloped by the comforts of home , the warmth of those you love .
of course , the colored world was not so much a neighborhood as a condition of existence.and though our own world was seemingly self-contained , it impacted on the white world ofpiedmont in almost every direction .
certainly , the borders of our world seemed to be impactedon when some white man or woman showed up where he or she did not belong , such as at theblack legion hall .
our space was violated when one of them showed up at a dance or a party.the rhythms would be off .
the music would sound not quite right : attempts to pat the beat offjust so .
everybody would leave early .
before 1955 , most white people were just shadowy presences in our world , vague figures ofpower like remote bosses at the mill or tellers at the bank .
there were exceptions , of course , the white people who would come into our world in ritualized , everyday ways we all understood.mr .
mail man , mr . insurance man , mr . white-and-chocolate milk man , mr . landlord man , mr.police man : we called white people by their trade , like characters in a mystery play .
mr.insurance man would come by every other week to collect premiums on college or deathpolicies , sometimes 50 cents or less .
" it's no disgrace to be colored , " the black entertainer bert williams famously observed earlyin the century , " but it is awfully inconvenient . "
for most of my childhood , we couldn't cat inrestaurants or sleep in hotels , we couldn't use certain bathrooms or try on clothes in stores.mama insisted that we dress up when we went to shop .
she was carefully dressed when shewent to clothing stores , and wore white pads called shields under her arms so her dress orblouse would show no sweat .
" we'd like to try this on , " she'd say carefully , uttering her wordsprecisely and properly .
" we don't buy clothes we can't try on , " she'd say when they declined , and we'd walk out in mama's dignified manner .
she preferred to shop where we hadan account and where everyone knew who she was .
at the cut-rate drug store , no one colored was allowed to sit down at the counter ortables , with one exception : my father .
i don't know for certain why carl dadisman , the owner , wouldn't stop daddy from sitting down .
but i believe it was in part because daddy was so light-colored , and in part because , during his shift at the phone company , he picked up orders forfood and coffee for the operators .
colored people were supposed to stand at the counter , gettheir food to go , and leave .
even when young doc bess would set up the basketball team withfree cokes after one of many victories , the colored players had to stand around and drink out ofpaper cups while the white players and cheerleaders sat down in comfortable chairs and drankout of glasses .
i couldn't have been much older than five or six as i sat with my father at the cut-rate oneafternoon , enjoying two scoops of caramel ice cream .
mr . wilson , a stony-faced , broodingirishman , walked by .
" hello , mr . wilson , " my father said .
" hello , george . "
i was genuinely puzzled .
mr . wilson must have confused my father with somebody else , but who ?
there weren't any georges among the colored people in piedmont .
" why don't you tellhim your name , daddy ? "
i asked loudly .
" your name isn't george . "
" he knows my name , boy , " my father said after a long pause .
" he calls all colored peoplegeorge . "
i knew we wouldn't talk about it again ; even at that age , 1 was given to understand thatthere were some subjects it didn't do to worry to death about .
now that i have children , irealize that what distressed my father wasn't so much the mr . wilsons of the world as thepainful obligation to explain the racial facts of life to someone who hadn't quite learned themyet .
maybe mr . wilson couldn't hurt my father by calling him george ; but i hurt him by askingto know why .
children are a delight .
they are our future .
but sadly , hiring someone to take care of themwhile you go to work is getting more expensive by the year .
earlier this month , it was reported that the cost of enrolling an infant or small kid at a childcarecenter rose 3 % in 2012 , faster than the overall cost of living .
there are now large strips of thecountry where daycare for an infant costs more than a tenth of the average married couple'sincome .
this is not necessarily a new trend , but it is a somewhat puzzling one .
the price ofprofessional childcare has been rising since the 1980s .
yet during that time , pay forprofessional childcare workers has stood still .
actually caregivers make less today , in realterms , than they did in 1990 .
considering that labor costs are responsible for up to 80 % of adaycare center's expenses , one would expect flat wages to have meant flat prices .
so who's to blame for higher childcare costs ?
childcare is a carefully regulated industry .
states lay down rules about how many childreneach employee is allowed to watch over , the space care centers need per child , and otherminute details .
and the stricter the regulations , the higher the costs .
if it has to hire acaregiver for every two children , it can't really achieve any economies of scale on labor to savemoney when other expenses go up .
in massachusetts , where childcare centers must hire oneteacher for every three infants , the price of care averaged more than $ 16,000 per year .
inmississippi , where centers must hire one teacher for every five infants , the price of careaveraged less than $ 5,000 .
unfortunately , i don't have all the daycare-center regulations handy .
but i wouldn't besurprised if as the rules have become more elaborate , prices have risen .
the tradeoff might be worth it in some cases ; after all , the health and safety of children should probablycome before cheap service .
but certainly , it doesn't seem to be an accident that some of thecheapest daycare available is in the least regulated south .
alex pang's amusing new book the distraction addiction addresses those of us who feel panicwithout a cellphone or computer .
and that , he claims , is pretty much all of us .
when we're notonline , where we spend four months annually , we're engaged in the stressful work of trying toget online .
the distraction addiction is not framed as a self-help book .
it's a thoughtful examination ofthe danger of our computing overdose and a historical overview of how technological advanceschange consciousness .
a " professional futurist " , pang urges an approach which he calls " contemplative computing . "
he asks that you pay full attention to " how your mind andbody interact with computers and how your attention and creativity are influenced bytechnology . "
pang's first job is to free you from common misconception that doing two things at onceallows you to get more done .
what is commonly called multitasking is , in fact , switch-tasking , and its harmful effects on productivity are well documented .
pang doesn't advocatereturning to a preinternet world .
instead , he asks you to " take a more ecological viewof your relationships with technologies and look for ways devices or media may be makingspecific tasks easier or faster but at the same time making your work and life harder . "
the distraction addiction is particularly fascinating on how technologies have changed certainfield of labor — often for the worse .
for architects , computer-aided design has become essentialbut in some ways has cheapened the design process .
as one architect puts it , " architecture isfirst and foremost about thinking ... and drawing is a more productive way of thinking " thancomputer-aided design .
somewhat less amusing are pang's solutions for kicking the internethabit .
he recommends the usual behavior-modification approaches , familiar to anyone whohas completed a quit-smoking program .
keep logs to study your online profile and decide whatyou can knock out , download a program like freedom that locks you out of your browser , or takea " digital sabbath " ; " unless you're a reporter or emergency-department doctor , you'lldiscover that your world doesn't fall apart when you go offline . "
ban sugary drinks that will add fuel to the obesity war
on a train last thursday , i sat opposite a man who was so fat he filled more than one seat.he was pale and disfigured and looked sick to death , which he probably was : obesity leads to many nasty ways of dying .
looking around the carriage , 1 saw quite a few people likehim , including a couple of fatty children with swollen checks pressing against their eyes .
thesepeople are part of what is without exaggeration an epidemic of obesity .
but it is quite unnecessary : there is a simple idea — far from new — that could sparemillions of such people a lifetime of chronic ill health , and at the same time save thenational health service ( nhs ) at least ￡ 14 billion a year in england and wales .
there would , you might think , be considerable public interest in it .
this simple idea is that sugar is as good — or as bad — as poison and should be avoided .
it is pure , white and deadly , as professor johnyudkin described it 40 years ago in a revolutionary book of that name .
the subtitle was howsugar is killing us .
in its countless hidden forms , in ready meals , junk food and sweet drinks , sugar leads toaddiction , to hormonal upsets to the appetite , to metabolic malfunctionsand obesity and from there to type 2 diabetes and its many horrible complication .
ifpeople really grasped that , they would try to kick the habit , particularly as britain is the " fatman of europe " .
they might even feel driven to support government measures to preventpeople from consuming this deadly stuff .
yet so far this idea has met little but resistance .
it is not difficult to imagine the vested interests lined up against any sugarcontrol - all the food and drink manufacturers , processors , promoters and retailers who makesuch easy pickings out of the magic powers of sugar .
then there are the liberals , with whom iwould normally side , who protest that government regulation would be yet another instanceof interference in our lives .
that is true , but people should realize that you cannot have a welfare state without a nannyslate , to some degree .
if we are all to be responsible for one another's healthinsurance , through socialized medicine , then we are all closely involved in one another's health , including everyone's eating and drinking .
that has already been admitted , finally , withsmoking .
but it has yet to be admitted with overeating , even though one in four adults in thiscountry is obese and that number is predicted to double by the year 2050 .
quite apart fromanything else , obesity will cripple the nhs .
recently , though , there have been signs that the medical establishment is trying to soundthe alarm .
last month the academy of medical royal colleges ( amrc ) published a report sayingthat obesity is the greatest public health issue affecting the uk and urging government to dosomething .
the report offers 10 recommendations , of which the first is imposing a tax of 20 percenton sugary drinks for at least a year , on top of the existing 20 percent value-added tax .
that atleast would be an excellent start .
the amounts of sugar in soft drinks are horrifying , and turnstraight to fat .
as professor terence stephenson , head of the amrc , has said , sugary soft drinksare " the ultimate bad food .
you are just consuming neat sugar .
your body didn't evolve tohandle this kind of thing . "
precisely .
the risks of eating too much fat or salt ( which are very different ) pale intoinsignificant compared with the harm done by sugar .
and it is everywhere .
it is difficult to buy anything in a supermarket , other than plain , unprepared meat , fish orvegetables , that doesn't have a large amount of sugar in it .
this has come about because theprevailing scientific views of the 1960s and 1970s ignored the evidence about sugar , andinstead saw fat as the really serious risk , both to the heart and other organs , as well as thecause of obesity .
the fashion was to avoid fat .
but finding that food with much of its fat removed is not veryappetizing , food producers turned to sugar as a magic alternative flavor enhancer , often inthe forms of syrups that had recently been developed from corn , and put it generouslyinto most prepared foods and soft drinks .
this stuff is not just fattening .
it is addictive .
it interferes with the body's metabolism , possibly via the activity of an appetite-controlling hormone .
there's plenty of evidence forthis , for those who will accept the truth .
theoretically , people ought to make " healthy choices " and avoid overeating .
but sugaradditives are not easy to identify and are hard to avoid .
so the snacking , over-drinking andover eating that makes people fat is not really their own fault : obesity is in large partsomething that is being done to them .
it should be stopped , or rather the government shouldstop it .
going round my local supermarket , i am constantly astonished that it is still legal to sellall the poisons stacked high on the shelves .
the problem is that they are worse than useless.they are poisonous .
they are known to be addictive .
they are known to make people obese.and giving small children sweet drinks or bottles of fake juice all day long is nothing less thanchild abuse .
clearly , the sale of such stuff ought to be illegal .
i hate to think of yet more governmentregulation .
but a bit of tax on sweet soda and a little more health education , a bit of cookingin schools and banning vending machines here and there — as suggested try theamrc report — is not going to achieve very much .
labelling is quite inadequate .
what isneeded is legislation banning high levels of sugary syrups used in foods and drinks .
in june 2012 , the then minister for public health said the government was not scared of thefood industry and had not ruled out legislation , because of the costs of obesity to the nhs.however , nothing has happened yet .
why not have another jammie dodger biscuit and forgetabout it .
new yorkers are gradually getting used to more pedaling passengers on those blazing blue citibikes .
but what about local bike shops ?
is citi bike rolling up riders at their expense ?
atgotham bikes in tribeca , manager w . ben said the shop has seen an increase in its overallsales due to the bike-share program .
" it's getting more people on the road , " he said .
jamesryan , an employee at danny's cycles in gramercy said citi bike is a good option for people toease into biking in a city famed for its traffic jams and aggressive drivers .
" they can try out abike without committing to buying one , " he said .
rentals are not a big part of the business at either gotham bikes or danny's cycles .
but forfrank's bike shop , a small business on grand st . , the bike-share program has been bad news.owner frank arroyo said his rental business has decreased by 90 % since citi bike was rolled outlast month .
arroyo's main rental customers are european tourists , who have since been drawnaway by citi bikes .
however , ben said the bike-share is good for bike sales at his shop .
" people have used the bike-share and realized how great it is to bike in the city , then decide that they want somethingnicer for themselves , " he noted .
christian farrell of waterfront bicycle shop , on west st . just north of christopher st . , saidinitially he was concerned about bike-share , though , he admitted , " i was happy to see peopleon bikes . "
farrell's early concerns were echoed by andrew crooks , owner of nyc velo , at 64 second ave . " it seemed like a great idea , but one that would be difficult to implement , " crooks said of citibike .
he said he worried about inexperienced riders ' lack of awareness of biking rules andstrong negative reaction from non - cyclists .
however , he said , it's still too early to tell if hisbusiness has been impacted .
while it's possible bike-share will cause a drop in business , crooks allowed that the idea is apositive step forward for new york city .
various studies have shown that increased spending on education has not led to measurableimprovements in learning .
between 1980 and 2008 . staff and teachers at u . s . public schoolsgrew roughly twice as fast as students .
yet students showed no additional learning inachievement tests .
universities show similar trends of increased administration personnel and costs withoutgreater learning , as documented in richard arum and josipa roksa's recent book academicallyadrift limited learning on college campuses .
a survey shows that 63 % of employers say that recent college graduates don't have the skillsthey need to succeed and 25 % of employers say that entry-level writing skills are lacking .
some simplistically attribute the decline in our public education system to the drain of theskilled students by private schools , but far more significant events were at work .
public schools worked well until about the 1970s .
in fact , until that time , public schoolsprovided far better education than private ones .
it was the underperforming students who werethrew out of public schools and went to private ones .
a prominent reason public schools did well was that many highly qualified women had fewoptions for working outside the house other than being teachers or nurses .
they acceptedrelatively low pay , difficult working conditions , and gave their very best .
having such a large supply of talented women teachers meant that society could pay less fortheir services .
women's liberation opened up new professional opportunities for women , and , over time , some of the best left teaching as a career option , bringing about a gradual declinein the quality of schooling .
also around that time , regulations , government , and unions came to dictate pay , preventadjustments , and introduce bureaucratic standard for adjustment .
large educationbureaucracies and unions came to dominate the landscape , confusing activity withachievement .
bureaucrats regularly rewrite curriculums , talk nonsense about the theories ofeducation , and require ever more administrators .
the end result had been that , after all thespending , students have worse math and reading skills than both their foreign peers and earliergenerations spending far less on education — as all the accumulating evidence nowdocuments .
you wouldn't know piedmont anymore — my piedmont , i mean — the town in west virginia where i learned to be a colored boy .
the 1950s in piedmont was a time to remember , or at least to me .
people were always proud to be from piedmont — lying at the foot of a mountain , on the banks of the mighty potomac .
i never knew colored people anywhere who were crazier about mountains and water , flowers and trees , fishing and hunting .
for as long as anyone could remember , we could outhunt , outshoot , and outswim the white boys in the valley .
it was an immigrant town ; white piedmont was italian and irish , with a handful of wealthy wasps on east hampshire street , and " ethnic " neighborhoods of working-class people everywhere else , colored and white .
for as long as anyone can remember , piedmont's character has been completely bound up with the westvaco paper mill : its prosperous past and doubtful future .
at first glance , the town is a typical dying mill center .
many once beautiful buildings stand empty , evidencing a bygone time of spirit and pride .
the big houses on east hampshire street are no longer proud , as they were when i cet4v.com like the italians and the irish , most of the colored people migrated to piedmont at the turn of the 20th century to work at the paper mill , which opened in 1888 .
all the colored men at the paper mill worked on " the platform " — loading paper into trucks until the craft unions were finally integrated in 1968 .
that's what almost every colored grown-up i knew did .
welcome to the colored zone , a large stretched banner could have said .
and it felt good in there , like walking around your house in bare feet and underwear , or snoring right out loud on the couch in front of the tv — enveloped by the comforts of home , the warmth of those you love .
of course , the colored world was not so much a neighborhood as a condition of existence .
and though our own world was seemingly self-contained , it impacted on the white world of piedmont in almost every direction .
certainly , the borders of our world seemed to be impacted on when some white man or woman showed up where he or she did not belong , such as at the black legion hall .
our space was violated when one of them showed up at a dance or a party .
the rhythms would be off .
the music would sound not quite right : attempts to pat the beat off just so .
before 1955 , most white people were just shadowy presences in our world , vague figures of power like remote bosses at the mill or tellers at the bank .
there were exceptions , of course , the white people who would come into our world in ritualized , everyday ways we all understood .
mr . mail man , mr . insurance man , mr . white-and-chocolate milk man , mr . landlord man , mr . police man : we called white people by their trade , like characters in a mystery play .
mr . insurance man would come by every other week to collect premiums on college or death policies , sometimes 50 cents or less .
" it's no disgrace to be colored , " the black entertainer bert williams famously observed early in the century , " but it is awfully inconvenient . "
for most of my childhood , we couldn't cat in restaurants or sleep in hotels , we couldn't use certain bathrooms or try on clothes in stores .
mama insisted that we dress up when we went to shop .
she was carefully dressed when she went to clothing stores , and wore white pads called shields under her arms so her dress or blouse would show no sweat .
" we'd like to try this on , " she'd say carefully , uttering her words precisely and properly .
she preferred to shop where we had an account and where everyone knew who she was .
at the cut-rate drug store , no one colored was allowed to sit down at the counter or tables , with one exception : my father .
but i believe it was in part because daddy was so light-colored , and in part because , during his shift at the phone company , he picked up orders for food and coffee for the operators .
colored people were supposed to stand at the counter , get their food to go , and leave .
even when young doc bess would set up the basketball team with free cokes after one of many victories , the colored players had to stand around and drink out of paper cups while the white players and cheerleaders sat down in comfortable chairs and drank out of glasses .
i couldn't have been much older than five or six as i sat with my father at the cut-rate one afternoon , enjoying two scoops of caramel ice cream .
mr . wilson , a stony-faced , brooding irishman , walked by .
" why don't you tell him your name , daddy ? "
" he calls all colored people george . "
i knew we wouldn't talk about it again ; even at that age , 1 was given to understand that there were some subjects it didn't do to worry to death about .
now that i have children , i realize that what distressed my father wasn't so much the mr . wilsons of the world as the painful obligation to explain the racial facts of life to someone who hadn't quite learned them yet .
maybe mr . wilson couldn't hurt my father by calling him george ; but i hurt him by asking to know why .
but sadly , hiring someone to take care of them while you go to work is getting more expensive by the year .
earlier this month , it was reported that the cost of enrolling an infant or small kid at a childcare center rose 3 % in 2012 , faster than the overall cost of living .
there are now large strips of the country where daycare for an infant costs more than a tenth of the average married couple's income .
the price of professional childcare has been rising since the 1980s .
yet during that time , pay for professional childcare workers has stood still .
actually caregivers make less today , in real terms , than they did in 1990 .
considering that labor costs are responsible for up to 80 % of a daycare center's expenses , one would expect flat wages to have meant flat prices .
states lay down rules about how many children each employee is allowed to watch over , the space care centers need per child , and other minute details .
if it has to hire a caregiver for every two children , it can't really achieve any economies of scale on labor to save money when other expenses go up .
in massachusetts , where childcare centers must hire one teacher for every three infants , the price of care averaged more than $ 16,000 per year .
in mississippi , where centers must hire one teacher for every five infants , the price of care averaged less than $ 5,000 .
but i wouldn't be surprised if as the rules have become more elaborate , prices have risen .
the tradeoff might be worth it in some cases ; after all , the health and safety of children should probably come before cheap service .
but certainly , it doesn't seem to be an accident that some of the cheapest daycare available is in the least cet4v.com .
alex pang's amusing new book the distraction addiction addresses those of us who feel panic without a cellphone or computer .
when we're not online , where we spend four months annually , we're engaged in the stressful work of trying to get online .
it's a thoughtful examination of the danger of our computing overdose and a historical overview of how technological advances change consciousness .
he asks that you pay full attention to " how your mind and body interact with computers and how your attention and creativity are influenced by technology . "
pang's first job is to free you from common misconception that doing two things at once allows you to get more done .
pang doesn't advocate returning to a preinternet world .
instead , he asks you to " take a more ecological view of your relationships with technologies and look for ways devices or media may be making specific tasks easier or faster but at the same time making your work and life harder . "
the distraction addiction is particularly fascinating on how technologies have changed certain field of labor — often for the worse .
for architects , computer-aided design has become essential but in some ways has cheapened the design process .
as one architect puts it , " architecture is first and foremost about thinking ... and drawing is a more productive way of thinking " than computer-aided design .
somewhat less amusing are pang's solutions for kicking the internet habit .
he recommends the usual behavior-modification approaches , familiar to anyone who has completed a quit-smoking program .
keep logs to study your online profile and decide what you can knock out , download a program like freedom that locks you out of your browser , or take a " digital sabbath " ; " unless you're a reporter or emergency-department doctor , you'll discover that your world doesn't fall apart when you go offline . "
the changes facing fast food
a ) fast-food firms have to be a thick-skinned bunch.health experts regularly criticise themseverelyfor selling food that makes people fat.critics even complain that mcdonald's , whoselogosymbolises calorie excess , should not have been allowed to sponsor the world cup . thesearethings fast-food firms have learnt to cope with.but not perhaps for much longer . theburgerbusiness faces more pressure from regulators at a time when it is already adaptingstrategies inresponse to shifts in the global economy .
b ) fast food was once thought to be recession-proof.when consumers need to cut spending , the logicgoes , cheap meals like big macs and whoppers become even more attractive.such " trading down " proved true for much of the latest recession , when fast-food companies picked upcustomers who could no longer afford to eat at casual restaurants.traffic was boosted inamerica , the home of fast food , with discounts and promotions , such as $ 1 menus and cheapcombination meals .
c ) as a result , fast-food chains have weathered the recession better than their moreexpensive competitors.in 2009 sales at full-service restaurants in america fell by more than 6 % , but total sales remained about the same at fast-food chains.in some markets , such as japan , france and britain , total spending on fast food increased.same - store sales in america atmcdonald's , the world's largest fast-food company , did not decline throughout thedownturn.panera bread , an american fast-food chain known for its fresh ingredients , performedwell , too , because it offers higher-quality food at lower prices than restaurants .
d ) but not all fast-food companies have been as fortunate.many , such as burger king , haveseen sales fall.in a severe recession , while some people trade down to fast food , many otherseat at home more frequently to save money.david palmer , an analyst at ubs , a bank , sayssmaller fast - food chains in america , such as jack in the box and carl's jr . , have been hitparticularly hard in this downturn because they are competing with the global giantmcdonald's , which increased spending on advertising by more than 7 % last year as others cutback .
e ) some fast-food companies also sacrificed their own profits by trying to give customersbetter value.during the recession companies set prices low , hoping that once they had temptedcustomers through the door they would be persuaded to order more expensive items.but inmany cases that strategy did not work.last year burger king franchisees sued the company over its double-cheeseburger promotion , claiming it was unfair for them to berepuired to sell these for $ 1 when they cost $ 1.10 to make.in may a judge ruled in favour ofburger king.nevertheless , the company may still be cursing its decision to promote cheapchoices over more expensive ones because items on its " value menu " now account for around 20 % of all sales , upfrom 12 % last october .
f ) analysts expect the fast-food industry to grow modestly this year.but the downturn ismakingcompanies rethink their strategies.many are now introducing higher-priced items toentice consumers away from $ 1 specials.kfc , a division of yum !
brands , which also ownstaco belland pizza hut , has launched a chicken sandwich that costs around $ 5.and in mayburger kingintroduced barbecue pork ribs at $ 7 for eight .
g ) companies are also trying to get customers to buy new and more items , includingdrinks.mcdonald ' s started selling better coffee as a challenge to starbucks.its " mccafe " linenowaccounts for an estimated 6 % of sales in america.starbucks has sold rights to its seattle'sbestcoffee brand to burger king , which will start selling it later this year .
h ) as fast-food companies shift from " super size " to " more buys " , they need to keepcustomer traffichigh throughout the day.many see breakfast as a big opporttmity , and not justfor fatty food.mcdonald ' s will start selling porridge in america next year.breakfast has thepotential to bevery profitable , says sara senatore of bernstein , a research firm , because themargins can be high.fast - food companies are also adding midday and late-night snacks , such asblended drinks andwraps.the idea is that by having a greater range of things on the menu , " wecan sell to consumersproducts they want all day , " says rick carucci . , the . chief financial officerof yum !
brands .
i ) but what about those growing waistlines ?
so far , fast-food firms have cleverly avoidedgovernmentregulation.by providing healthy options , like salads and low-calorie sandwiches , they have at leastgiven the impression of doing something about helping to fight obesity . these offeringsare not necessarily loss-leaders , as they broaden the appeal of outlets togroups of diners thatinclude some people who don't want to eat a burger.but customers cannotbe forced to ordersalads instead of fries .
j ) in the future , simply offering a healthy option may not be good enough .
" every packaged-food and restaurant company i know is concerned about regulation right now , " saysmr.palmer of ubs.america ' s health-reform bill , which congress passed this year , requiresrestaurant chains with 20 ormore outlets to put the calorie-content of items they serve on themenu . a study by the nationalbureau of economic research , which tracked the effects onstarbucks of a similar calorie-postinglaw in new york city in 2007 , found that the averagecalorie-count per transaction fell 6 % andrevenue increased 3 % at starbucks stores where adunldn donuts outlet was nearby--a sign , it issaid , that menu-labelling could favour chainsthat have more healthy offerings .
k ) in order to avoid other legislation in america and elsewhere , fast-food companies willhave tocontinue innovating . walt riker of mcdonald's claims the change it has made in itsmenumeans it offers more healthy items than it did a few years ago .
" we probably sell morevegetables , more milk , more salads , more apples than any restaurant business in the world , " hesays.but therecent proposal by a county in california to ban mcdonald's from including toys inits high-calorie " happy meals " , because legislators believe it attracts children to unhealthyfood , suggests there isa lot more left to do .
if you think a high-factor sunscreen keeps you safe from harmful rays , you may bewrong.research in this week's nature shows that while factor 50 reduces the number ofmelanomasand delays their occurrence , it can't prevent them.melanomas are the mostaggressive skin cancers.you have a higher risk if you have red or blond hair , fair skin , blue orgreen eyes , or sunburn easily , or if a close relative has had one.melanomas are more common ifyou have periodic intense exposure to the sun.other skin cancers are increasingly likely withlong-term exposure .
there is continuing debate as to how effective sunscreen is in reducing melanomas theevidence is weaker than it is for preventing other types of skin cancer . a 2011 australian studyof 1,621 people found that people randomly selected to apply sunscreen daily had half the rateof melanomas of people who used cream as needed . a second study , comparing 1,167 peoplewith melanomas to 1,101 who didn't have the cancer , found that using sunscreen routinely , alongside other protection such as hats , long sleeves or staying in the shade , did give someprotection.this study said other forms of sun protection not sunscreen seemed mostbeneficial.the study relied on people remembering what they had done over each decade oftheir lives , so it's not entirely reliable.but it seems reasonable to think sunscreen givespeople a false sense of security in the sun .
many people also don't use sunscreen properly applying insufficient amounts , failing toreapply after a couple of hours and staying in the sun too long.it is sunburn that is mostworrying recent research shows five episodes of sunburn in the teenage years increases the riskof all skin cancers .
the good news is that a combination of sunscreen and covering up can reduce melanomarates , as shown by australian figures from their slip-slop-slap campaign.so if there is a heatwave this summer , it would be best for us , too , to slip on a shirt , slop on sunscreen andslap on a hat .
across the rich world , well-educated people increasingly work longer than the less-skilled . some 65 % of american men aged 62 - 74 with a professional degree are in theworkforce , compared with 32 % of men with only a high-school certificate.this gap is part of adeepening divide between the well-educated well-off and the unskilled poor . rapidtechnological advance has raised the incomes of the highly skilled while squeezing those of theunskilled.the consequences , for individuals and society , are profound .
the world is facing an astonishing rise in the number of old people , and they will livelonger than ever before.over the next 20 years the global population of those aged 65 ormore will almost double , from 600 million to 1.1 billion.the experience of the 20th century , when greater longevity translated into more years in retirement rather than more yearsat work , has persuaded many observers that this shift will lead to slower economic growth , while the swelling ranks of pensioners will create government budget problems .
but the notion of a sharp division between the working young and the idle old misses a newtrend , the growing gap between the skilled and the unskilled.employment rates are fallingamong younger unskilled people , whereas older skilled folk are working longer.the divide ismost extreme in america , where well-educated baby-boomers areputting off retirement while many less-skilled younger people have dropped out of theworkforce .
policy is partly responsible.many european governments have abandoned policies that usedto encourage people to retire early.rising life expectancy , combined with thereplacement of generous defmed-benefit pension plans with less generous defined-contribution ones , means that even the better-off must work longer to have a comfortableretirement.but the changing nature of work also plays a big role.pay has risen sharply for thehighly educated , and those people continue to reap rich rewards into old age because thesedays the educated elderly are more productive than the preceding generation . technologicalchange may well reinforce that shift : the skills that complement computers , frommanagement knowhow to creativity , do not necessarily decline with age .
essay ． grading software offers professors a break
a ． imagine taking a college exam ， and ， instead of handing in a blue book and getting agrade from a professor a few weeks later ， clicking the " send " button when you are done andreceiving a grade back instantly ， your essay scored by a software program ． and then ， insteadof being done with that exam ， imagine that the system would immediately let you rewrite thetest to try to improve your grade ．
b ． edx ， the nonprofit enterprise founded by harvard and the massachusetts institute oftechnology ( mit ) to offer courses on the internet ， has just introduced such a system and willmake its automatedsoftware available free on the web to any institution that wants touse it ． the software uses artificial intelligence to grade student essays and short writtenanswers ， freeing professors for other tasks ．
c ． the new service will bring the educational consortiuminto a growing conflict overthe role of automation in education ． although automated grading systems for multiple — choiceand true — false tests are now widespread ， the use of artificial intelligence technology tograde essay answers has not yet received widespread acceptance by educators and has manycritics .
d ． anant agarwal ， an electrical engineer who is president of edx ， predicted that theinstant — grading software would be a useful teaching tool enabling students to take tests andwrite essays over and over and improve the quality of their answers ． he said the technologywould offer distinct advantages over the traditional classroom system ， where students oftenwait days or weeks lor grades ． " there is a huge value in learning with instantfeedback ， " dr ． agarwal said ． " students are telling us they learn much better with instantfeedback ． "
e ． but skepticssay the automated system is no match for live teachers ． onelongtime critic ， les perelman ， has drawn national attention several times for putting togethernonsense essays that have fooled software grading programs into giving high marks ． he hasalso been highly critical of studies claiming that the software compares well to humangraders ．
f ． he is among a group of educators who last month began circulating a petitionopposing automated assessment software ． the group ． which calls itself professionalsagainst machine scoring of student essays in high — stakes assessment ， has collected nearly 2 ， 000 signatures ， including some from famous people like noanl chomsky ．
g ． " let ’ s face the realities of automatic essay scorin 9 ， " the group ’ s statement reads inpart .
" computers cannot " read ． ’ they cannot measure the essentials of effective writtencommunication ： accuracy ． reasonin 9 ， adequacy of evidence ， good sense ， ethicalposition ， convincing argument ， meaningful organization ， and clarity ， among others ． "
h ． but edx expects its software to be adopted widely by schools and universities ． it offersfree online classes from harvard ． mit and the university of california — berkeley ； this fall ， itwill add classes from well esley ． georgetown and the university of texas ． in all ， 12universities participate in edx ， which offers certificates for course completion and has saidthat it plans to continue to expand next year ， including adding international schools ．
i ． the edx assessment tool requires human teachers ， or graders ， to first grade l00essays or essay questions ． the system then uses a variety of machine — learning techniques totrain itself to be able to grade any number of essays or answers automatically and almostinstantly ． the software will assign a grade depending on the scoring system created by theteacher ， whether it is a letter grade or numericalrank ．
j .
edx is not the first to use the automated assessment technology ， which dates to earlycomputers in the l960s ． there is now a range of companies offering commercial programs tograde written test answers ， and four states--louisiana ， north dakota ， utah and west virginia--are using some form
of the technology in secondary schools ． a fifth ， indiana ， has experimented with it ． in somecases the software is used as a " second reader ． " to check the reliability of the humangraders ．
k ． but the growing influence of the edx consortium to set standards is likely to give thetechnology aboost ． on tuesday ， stanford announced that it would work with edx to developa joint educational system that will make use of the automated assessment technology ．
l ． two start ． ups ． coursera and udacity ， recently founded by stanford faculty members tocreate " massive open online courses ， " 0r moocs ， are also committed to automatedassessment systems because of the value of instant feedback ． " " it allows students to getimmediate feedback on their
work ． so that learning turns into a game ， with students naturally gravitatingtowardresubmitting the work until they get it right ， " said daphne koller ， a computer scientist andafounder of coursera ．
m ． last year the hewlett foundation ， a grant — malting organization set up by one of thehewlett packard founders and his wife ． sponsored two $ 100 ， 000 prizes aimed at improvingsoftware that grades essays and short answers ． more than l50 teams entered each category ． awinner of one of the hewlett contests ． vik paruchuri ， was hired by e ( ⅸto help design itsassessment software ．
n ． " one of our focuses is to help mds learn how to think critically ， " said victor vuchic ， aprogram officer at the hewlett foundation ． " it ’ s probably impossible to do that with multiple — choice tests the challenge is that this requires human graders ， and so they cost a lot moreand they take a lot more time ． "
o ． mark d ． shermis ， a professor at the university of akron in ohi 0 ． supervised thehewlett foundation ’ s contest on automated essay scoring and wrote a paper about theexperiment ． in his view ， the technology--though imperfect--has a place in educationalsettings ．
p ． with increasingly large classes ， it is impossible for most teachers to give studentsmeaningful feedback on writing assignments ， he said ． plus ， he noted ， critics of the technologyhave tended to come from the nation ’ s best universities ， where the level of teaching is muchbetter than at n lost schools ．
q ． " often they come from very famous institutions where ， in fact ， they do a muchbetter ． job of providing feedback than a machine ever could ， " dr ． shermis said ． " there seemsto be a lack of appreciation of what is actually going on in the real world ． "
the endless debate about " work — life balance " often contains a hopeful footnote about stayat home dads ． if american society and business won ’ t make it easier on future female leaderswho choose to have children ， there is still the ray of hope that increasing numbers of full — timefathers will ． but based on today ’ s socioeconomic trends ， this hopeis ， unfortunately ， misguided ．
it ’ s true that the number of men who have left work to do their thing as full — time parentshas doubled in a decade ， but it ’ s still very small ： only 0 ． 8 ％ of married couples where the stay — at — horne father was out of the labor force for a year ． even that percentage is likely inflatedby men thrust into their caretaker role by a downsizing ． this is simply not a large enoughgroup to reduce the social stigmaand force other adjustments necessary to supportingmen in this decision ． even if onlywork more than their family ．
even shorter times away from work for working fathers are already difficult ． a study foundthat 85 ％ of new fathers take some time off after the birth of a child — but for all but a few ． it ’ s aweek or two at most ． meanwhile ， the average for women who take leave is more than loweeks ．
such choices impact who moves up in the organization ． while you ’ re away ， someone elseis doing your work ， making your sales ， taking care of your customers ． that can ’ t help you atwork ． it can only hurt you ． women ， of course ， face the same issues of returning after a longabsence ． but with many more women than men choosing to leave the workforce entirely toraise families ， returning from an extended parental leave doesn ’ t raise as many eyebrowsas it does for men ．
women would make more if they didn ’ t break their earning trajectoryby leaving theworkforce ， or if higher-paying professions were more family friendly ． in the foreseeablefuture ， stay at home fathers may make all the difference for individual families ． but theirpresence won ’ t reduce the numbers of high potential women who are forced to choosebetween family and career ．
some of the world ’ s most significant problems never hit headlines ． one example comesfrom agriculture ． food riots and hunger make news ． but the trend lying behind these mattersis rarely talked about ． this is the decline in the growth in yields of some of the world ’ s majorcrops ． a new study by the university of minnesota and mcgill university in montreal looks atwhere ． and how far ． this decline is occurring ．
the authors take a vast number of data points for the four most importantcrops ： rice ， wheat ， corn and soyabeans ． they find that on between 24 ％ and 39 ％ of allharvested areas ， the improvement in yields that took place before the l980s slowed down inthe l990s and 2000s ． there are two worrying features of the slowdown ． one is that it has beenparticularly sharp in the world ’ s most populouscountries ， india and china ． theirability to feed themselves has been an important source of relative stability both within thecountries and on world food markets ．
that self-sufficiency cannot be taken for granted if yields continue to slow down orreverse ． second ， yield growth has been lower in wheat and rice than in coll andsoyabeans ． this is problematic because wheat and rice are more important asfoods ， accounting for around half of all calories consumed ． corn and soyabeans are moreimportant as feed grains ． the authors note that " we have preferentially focused our cropimprovement efforts on feeding animals and cars rather than on crops that feed people andare the basis of food security in much of the world ． "
the report qualifies the more optimistic findings of another new paper which suggests thatthe world will not have to dig up a lot more land for farming in order to feed 9 billion people in2050 ， as the food and agriculture organisation has argued ． instead ， it says ， thanks toslowing population growth ， land currently ploughed up for crops might be able to revertto forest or wilderness ． this could happen ． the trouble is that the forecast assumescontinued improvements in yields which may not actually happen
reaping the rewards of risk-taking
a .
since steve jobs resigned as chief executive of apple , much has been said about himas a peerless business leader who has created immense wealth for shareholders , and guidedthe design of hit products that are transforming entire industries , like music and mobilecommunications .
b .
all true , but let's think different , to borrow the apple marketing slogan of years back.let ' s look at mr . jobs as a role model .
c . above all , he is an innovator .
his creative force is seen in products such as theipod , iphone , and ipad , and in new business models for pricing and distributing music andmobile software online .
studies of innovation come to the same conclusion : you can'tengineer innovation , but you can increase the odds of it occurring .
and mr . jobs ' career can beviewed as a consistent pursuit of improving those odds , both for himself and the companies hehas led .
mr . jobs , of course , has enjoyed singular success .
but innovation , broadly defined , is the crucial ingredient in all economic progress--higher growth for nations , morecompetitive products for companies , and more prosperous careem for individuals .
and mr.jobs , many experts say , exemplifies what works in the innovation game .
d . " we can look at and learn from steve jobs what the essence of american innovationis , " says john kao , an innovation consultant to corporations and governments .
many othernations , mr . john kao notes , axe now ahead of the united states in producing what areconsidered the raw materials of innovation .
these include government financing for scientificresearch , national policies to support emerging industries , educational achievement , engineers and scientists graduated , even the speeds of internet broadband service .
e . yet what other nations typically lack , mr . kao adds , is a social environment thatencourages diversity , experimentation , risk-taking , and combining skills from many fieldsinto products that he calls " recombinant mash-ups , " like the iphone , whichredefined the smartphone category .
" the culture of other countries doesn't support the kind ofinnovation that steve jobs exemplifies , as america does , " mr . john kao says .
f . workers of every rank are told these days that wide-ranging curiosity and continuouslearning are vital to tturiving in the modern economy .
formal education matters , careercounselors say , but real - life experience is often even more valuable .
g . an adopted child , growing up in silicon valley , mr . jobs displayed those traits early on.he wasfascinated by electronics as a child , building heathkit do-it-yourself projects , like radios.mr .
jobs dropped out of reed college after only a semester and traveled around india in searchof spiritual enlightenment , before returning to silicon valley to found apple with his friend , stephen wozniak , an engineering wizard .
mr . jobs was forced out of apple in 1985 , wentoff and founded two other companies , next and pixar , before returning to apple in 1996 andbecoming chiefexecutive in 1997 .
h . his path was unique , but innovation experts say the pattern of exploration is notunusual .
" it's often people like steve jobs who can draw from a deep reservoir of diverseexperiences that often generate breakthrough ideas and insights , " says hal gregersen , aprofessor at the european institute of business administration .
i . mr . gregersen is a co-author of a new book , the innovator's dna , which is based on aneight-year study of 5,000 entrepreneurs and executives worldwide .
his twocollaborators and co - authors are jeff dyer , a professor at brigham young university , andclayton christensen , a professor at the harvard business school , whose 1997 book theinnovator's dilemma popularized the concept of " disruptive .
innovation . "
the academics identify five traits that are common to the disruptive innovators : questioning , experimenting , observing , associating and networking .
their bundle ofcharacteristics echoes the ceaseless curiosity and willingness to take risks noted by otherexperts .
networking , mr . hal gregersen explains , is less about career-building relationships thana consistent search for new ideas .
associating , he adds , is the ability to make idea-producingconnections by linking concepts from different disciplines .
k . " innovators engage in these mental activities regularly , " mr . gregersen says .
" it's ahabit for them . "
innovative companies , according to the authors , typically enjoy highervaluations in thestock market , which they call an " innovation premium . "
it iscalculated by estimating the share of a company's value that cannot be accounted for by itscurrent products and cash flow .
the innovation premium tries to quantify .
investors'bets that a company will do even better in the future because of innovation .
l . apple , by their calculations , had a 37 percent innovation premium during mr . jobs ' firstterm withthe company .
his years in exile resulted in a 31 percent innovation discount .
afterhis return , applee's fortunes inmroved gradv at first , and imp ) roved markedly starting in 2005 , yielding a 52percent innovation premium since then .
m . there is no conclusive proof , but mr . hal gregersen says it is unlikely that mr . jobscould havereshaped industries beyond computing , as he has done in his second term at apple , without theexperience outside the company , especially at pixar--the computer-animation .
studiothat created a string of critically and commercially successful movies , such as " toystory " and .
n . mr . jobs suggested much the same thing during a commencement address to thegraduating class atstanford university in 2005 .
" it turned out that getting fired from apple wasthe best thing thatcould have ever happened to me , " he told the students .
mr . jobs also spokeof perseverance .
and will power .
" sometimes life hits you in the head with a brick , " hesaid .
" don't losefaith . "
o . mr . jobs ended his commencement talk with a call to innovation , both in one's choiceof work andin one's life.be curious , experiment , take risks , he said to the students.his advicewasemphasized by the words on the back of the final edition of the whole earth catalog , whichhequoted : " stay hungry .
stay foolish . "
" and , " mr . jobs said , " i have always wished thatformyself .
and now , as you graduate to begin anew , i wish that for you . "
most of us know what we're doingandyet we do it anyway.so here's a suggestion offered by two researchers at the randcorporation : why not take a lessonfrom alcohol control policies and apply them to where foodis sold and how it's displayed ?
" many policy measures to control obesity .
assume thatpeople consciously and rationallychoose what and how much they eat and therefore focus onproviding information and more access tohealthier foods , " note the two researchers .
" incontrast , " the researchers continue , " many regulations that don't assume people makerationalchoices have been successfully applied to control alcohol , a substance--like food--ofwhichimmoderate consumption leads to serious health problems . "
the research referencesstudies of people's behavior with food and alcohol and results of alcoholrestrictions , and thenlists five regulations that the researchers think might be pronfising if applied tojunk foods.among them : density restrictions : licenses to sell alcohol aren't handed out unplanned to allcomers but areallotted .
based on the number of places in an area that already sellalcohol .
these make alcoholless easy to get and reduce the number of psychological cues todrink .
similarly , the researchers say , being presented with junk food stimulates our desire toeat it .
sowhy not limit the density of food outlets , particularly ones that sell food rich in emptycalories ?
andwhy not limit sale of food in places that aren't primarily food stores ?
display andsales restrictions : california has a rule prohibiting alcohol displays near the cashregisters in gasstations , and in most places you can't buy alcohol at drive-through facilities .
atsupermarkets , food companies pay to have their wares in places where they're easily seen .
one couldremovejunk food to the back of the store and ban them from the shelves at checkout lines .
theothermeasures include restricting portion sizes , taxing and prohibiting special price deals forjunk foods , andplacing warning labels on the products .
kodak's decision to file for bankruptcy .
protection is a sad , though notunexpected , turningpoint for a leading american corporation that pioneered consumerphotography and dominated the filmmarket for decades , but ultimately failed to adapt to thedigital revolution .
although many attribute kodak's downfall to " complacency , " thatexplanation doesn'tacknowledge the lengths to which the company went to reinvent itself.decades ago , kodak anticipatedthat digital photography would overtake film--and in fact , kodak invented the first digital camera in1975 - - but in a fateful decision , the company chose toshelf its new discovery to focus on its traditionalfilm business .
it wasn't that kodak was blind tothe future , said rebecca henderson , a professor at harvardbusiness school , but rather that itfailed to execute on a strategy to confront it .
by the time thecompany realized its mistake , itwas too late.kodak is an example of a firm that was very much aware that they had to adapt , and spent a lot ofmoney trying to do so , but ultimately failed .
large companies have adifficult time switching to newmarkets because there is a temptation to put existing assets intothe new businesses .
although kodak anticipated the inevitable rise of digital photography , its corporate culture was too rooted in the successes of the past for it to make the clean break necessary tofullyembrace the future .
their history was so important tothem .
nowtheir history has become a liability.kodak ' s downfall over the last several decadeswas dramatic .
but the 1980s broughtnew competition from japanese filmcompany fuji photo , which undermined kodak by offering lowerprices for film and photosupplies .
kodak's decision not to pursue the role of official film for the 1984los angelesolympics was a major miscalculation .
the bid went instead to fuji , which exploiteditssponsorship to win a permanent foothold in the marketplace .
becoming educated should not require giving up pleasure .
a ) when jonathan swift proposed , in 1729 , that the people of ireland eat their children , he insisted it would solve three problems at once : feed the hungry masses , reduce the population during a severe depression , and stimulate the restaurant business .
even as a satire , it seems disgusting and shocking in america with its child-centered culture .
but actually , the country is closer to his proposal than you might think .
b ) if you spend much time with educators and policy makers , you'll hear a lot of the following words : " standards , " " results , " " skills , " " self-control , " " accountability , " and so on .
i have visited some of the newer supposedly " effective " schools , where children shout slogans in order to leam self-control or must stand behind their desk when they can't sit still .
c ) a look at what goes on in most classrooms these days makes it abundantly clear that when people think about education , they are not thinking about what it feels like to be a child , or what makes childhood an important and valuable stage of life in its own right .
d ) i'm a mother of three , a teacher , and a developmental psychologist .
so i've watched a lot of children — talking , playing , arguing , eating , studying , and being young .
here's what i've come to understand .
the thing that sets children apart from adults is not their ignorance , nor their lack of skills .
it's their enormous capacity for joy .
think of a 3 - year-old lost in the pleasures of finding out what he can and cannot sink in the bathtub , a 5 - year-old beside herself with the thrill of putting together strings of nonsensical words with her best friends , or an 11 - year-old completely absorbed in a fascinating comic strip .
a child's ability to become deeply absorbed in something , and derive intense pleasure from that absorption , is something adults spend the rest of their lives trying to return to .
e ) a friend told me the following story .
one day , when he went to get his 7 - year-old son from soccer practice , his kid greeted him with a downcast face and a sad voice .
the coach had criticized him for not focusing on his soccer drills .
the little boy walked out of the school with his head and shoulders hanging down .
he seemed wrapped in sadness .
but just before he reached the car door , he suddenly stopped , crouching down to peer at something on the sidewalk .
his face went down lower and lower , and then , with complete joy he called out , " dad .
come here .
this is the strangest bug i've ever seen .
it has , like , a million legs .
look at this .
it's amazing . "
he looked up at his father , his features overflowing with energy and delight .
" can't we stay here for just a minute ?
i want to find out what he does with all those legs .
this is the coolest ever . "
f ) the traditional view of such moments is that they constitute a charming but irrelevant byproduct of youth — something to be pushed aside to make room for more important qualities , like perseverance , obligation , and practicality .
yet moments like this one are just the kind of intense absoiption and pleasure adults spend the rest of their lives seeking .
human lives are governed by the desire to experience joy .
becoming educated should not require giving up joy but rather lead to finding joy in new kinds of things : reading novels instead of playing with small figures , conducting experiments instead of sinking cups in the bathtub , and debating serious issues rather than stringing together nonsense words , for example .
in some cases , schools should help children find new , more grown-up ways of doing the same things that are constant sources of joy : making art , making friends , making decisions .
g ) building on a child's ability to feel joy , rather than pushing it aside , wouldn't be that hard .
it would just require a shift in the education world's mindset .
instead of trying to get children to work hard , why not focus on getting them to take pleasure in meaningful , productive activity , like making things , working with others , exploring ideas , and solving problems ?
these focuses are not so different from the things in which they delight .
h ) before you brush this argument aside as rubbish , or think of joy as an unaffordable luxury in a nation where there is awful poverty , low academic achievement , and high dropout rates , think again .
the more horrible the school circumstances , the more important pleasure is to achieving any educational success .
i ) many of the assignments and rules teachers come up with , often because they are pressured by their administrators , treat pleasure and joy as the enemies of competence and responsibility .
the assumption is that children shouldn't chat in the classroom because it hinders hard work ; instead , they should leain to delay gratification so that they can pursue abstract goals , like going to college .
j ) not only is this a boring and awful way to treat children , it makes no sense educationally .
decades of research have shown that in order to acquire skills and real knowledge in school , kids need to want to learn .
you can force a child to stay in his or her seat , fill out a worksheet , or practice division .
but you can't force the child to think carefully , er \ joy books , digest complex information , or develop a taste for learning .
to make that happen , you have to help the child find pleasure in
learning — to see school as a source of joy .
k ) adults tend to talk about learning as if it were medicine ; unpleasant , but necessary and good for you .
why not instead think of learning as if it were food — something so valuable to humans that they have evolved to experience it as a pleasure ?
l ) joy should not be trained out of children or left for after-school programs .
the more difficult a child's life circumstances , the more important it is for that child to find joy in his or her classroom .
" pleasure " is not a dirty word .
and it doesn't run counter to the goals of public education .
it is , in fact , the precondition .
when it's five o'clock , people leave their office .
the length of the workday , for many workers , is defined by time .
they leave when the clock tells them they're done .
these days , the time is everywhere - , not just on clocks or watches , but on cell-phones and computers .
that may be a bad thing , particularly at work .
new research shows that clock-based work schedules hinder morale and creativity .
clock-timers organize their day by blocks of minutes and hours .
for example : a meeting from 9 a . m . to 10 a . m . , research from 10 a . m . to noon , etc .
on the other hand , task-timers have a list of things they want to accomplish .
they work down the list , each task starts when the previous task is completed .
it is said that all of us employ a mix of both these types of planning .
what , then , are the effects of thinking about time in these different ways ?
does one make us more productive ?
better at the tasks at hand ?
happier ?
in experiments conducted by tamar avnet and anne-laure sellier , they had participants organize different activities — from project planning , holiday shopping , to yoga — by time or to-do list to measure how they performed under " clock time " vs " task time . "
they found clock timers to be more efficient but less happy because they felt little control over their lives .
task timers are happier and more creative , but less productive .
they tend to enjoy the moment when something good is happening , and seize opportunities that come up .
the researchers argue that task-based organizing tends to be undervalued and under-supported in business culture .
smart companies , they believe , will try to bake more task-based planning into their strategies .
this might be a small change to the way we view work and the office , but the researchers argue that it challenges a widespread characteristic of the economy : work organized by clock time .
while most people will still probably need , and be , to some extent , clock-timers , task-based timing should be used when performing a job that requires more creativity .
it'll make those tasks easier , and the task-doers will be happier .
martha stewart was charged , tried and convicted of a crime in 2004 .
as she neared the end of her prison sentence , a well-known columnist wrote that she was " paying her dues , " and that " there is simply no reason for anyone to attempt to deny her right to start anew . "
surely , the american ideal of second chances should not be reserved only for the rich and powerful .
unfortunately , many federal and state laws impose post-conviction restrictions on a shockingly large number of americans , who are prevented from ever fully paying their debt to society .
at least 65 million people in the united states have a criminal record .
this can result in severe penalties that continue long after punishment is completed .
many of these penalties are imposed regardless of the seriousness of the offense or the person's individual circumstances .
laws can restrict or ban voting , access to public housing , and professional and business licensing .
they can affect a person's ability to get a job and qualification for benefits .
in all , more than 45,000 laws and rules serve to exclude vast numbers of people from fully participating in american life .
some laws make sense .
no one advocates letting someone convicted of pedophilia work in a school .
but too often collateral consequences bear no relation to public safety .
should a woman who possessed a small amount of drugs years ago be permanently unable to be licensed as a nurse ?
these laws are also counterproductive , since they make it harder for people with criminal records to find housing or land a job , two key factors that reduce backsliding .
a recent report makes several recommendations , including the abolition of most post-conviction penalties , except for those specifically needed to protect public safety .
where the penalties are not a must , they should be imposed only if the facts of a case support it .
the point is not to excuse or forget the crime .
rather , it is to recognize that in america's vast criminal justice system , second chances are crucial .
it is in no one's interest to keep a large segment of the population on the margins of society .
how to eat well
a ) why do so many americans eat tons of processed food , the stuff that is correctly called junk should really carry warning labels ?
b ) it's not because fresh ingredients are hard to come by .
supermarkets offer more variety than ever , and there are over four times as many farmers ' markets in the u . s . as there were 20 years ago .
nor is it for lack of available information .
there are plenty of recipes , how-to videos and cooking classes available to anyone who has a computer , smartphone or television .
if anything , the information is overwhelming .
c ) and yet we aren't cooking .
if you eat three meals a day and behave like most americans , you probably get at least a third of your daily calories outside the home .
nearly two-thirds of us grab fast food once a week , and we get almost 25 % of our daily calories from snacks .
so we're eating out or taking in , and we don't sit down-or we do , but we hurry .
d ) shouldn't preparing-and consuming-food be a source of comfort , pride , health , well-being , relaxation , sociability ?
something that connects us to other humans ?
why would we want to outsource this basic task , especially when outsourcing it is so harmful ?
e ) when i talk about cooking , i'm not talking about creating elaborate dinner parties or three-day science projects .
i'm talking about simple , easy , everyday meals .
my mission is to encourage green hands and those lacking time or money to feed themselves .
that means we need modest , realistic expectations , and we need to teach people to cook food that's good enough to share with family and friends .
f ) perhaps a return to real cooking needn't be far off .
a recent harris poll revealed that 79 % of americans say they enjoy cooking and 30 % " love it " ; 14 % admit to not enjoying kitchen work and just 7 % won't go near the stove at all .
but this doesn't necessarily translate to real cooking , and the result of this survey shouldn't surprise anyone : 52 % of those 65 or older cook at home five or more times per week ; only a third of young people do .
g ) back in the 1950s most of us grew up in households where mom cooked virtually every night .
the intention to put a home-cooked meal on the table was pretty much universal .
most people couldn't afford to do otherwise .
h ) although frozen dinners were invented in the ' 40s , their popularity didn't boom until televisions became popular a decade or so later .
since then , packaged , pre-prepared meals have been what's for dinner .
the microwave and fast-food chains were the biggest catalysts , but the big food companies — which want to sell anything except the raw ingredients that go into cooking — made the home cook an endangered species .
i ) still , i find it strange that only a third of young people report preparing meals at home regularly .
isn't this the same crowd that rails against processed junk and champions craft cooking ?
and isn't this the generation who say they're concerned about their health and the well-being of the planet ?
if these are truly the values of many young people , then their behavior doesn't match their beliefs .
j ) there have been half-hearted but well-publicized efforts by some food companies to reduce calories in their processed foods , but the standard american diet is still the polar opposite of the healthy , mostly plant-based diet that just about every expert says we should be eating .
considering that the government's standards are not nearly ambitious enough , the picture is clear : by not cooking at home , we're not eating the right things , and the consequences are hard to overstate .
k ) to help quantify the costs of a poor diet , i recently tried to estimate this impact in terms of a most famous food , the burger .
i concluded that the profit from burgers is more than offset by the damage they cause in health problems and environmental harm .
l ) cooking real food is the best defense — not to mention that any meal you're likely to eat at home contains about 200 fewer calories than one you would eat in a restaurant .
m ) to those americans for whom money is a concern , my advice is simple ; buy what you can afford , and cook it yourself .
the common prescription is to primarily shop the grocery store , since that's where fresh produce , meat and seafood , and dairy are .
and to save money and still eat well you don't need local , organic ingredients ; all you need is real food .
i'm not saying local food isn't better ; it is .
but there is plenty of decent food in the grocery stores .
n ) the other sections you should get to know are the frozen foods and the canned goods .
frozen produce is still produce ; canned tomatoes are still tomatoes .
just make sure you're getting real food without tons of added salt or sugar .
ask yourself , would grandma consider this food ?
does it look like something that might occur in nature ?
it's pretty much common sense ; you want to buy food , not unidentifiable foodlike objects .
o ) you don't have to hit the grocery store daily , nor do you need an abundance of skill .
since fewer than half of americans say they cook at an intermediate level and only 20 % describe their cooking skills as advanced , the crisis is one of confidence .
and the only remedy for that is practice .
there's nothing mysterious about cooking the evening meal .
you just have to do a little thinking ahead and redefine what qualifies as dinner .
like any skill , cooking gets easier as you do it more ; every time you cook , you advance your level of skills .
someday you won't even need recipes .
my advice is that you not pay attention to the number of steps and ingredients , because they can be deceiving .
p ) time , i realize , is the biggest obstacle to cooking for most people .
you must adjust your priorities to find time to cook .
for instance , you can move a tv to the kitchen and watch your favorite shows while you're standing at the sink .
no one is asking you to give up activities you like , but if you're watching food shows on tv , try cooking instead .
the wallet is heading for extinction .
as a day-to-day essential , it will die off with the generation who read print newspapers .
the kind of shopping-where you hand over notes and count out change in return-now happens only in the most minor of our retail encounters , like buying a bar of chocolate or a pint of milk from a corner shop .
at the shops where you spend any real money , that money is increasingly abstracted .
and this is more and more true , the higher up the scale you go .
at the most cutting-edge retail stores-victoria beckham on dover street , for instance-you don't go and stand at any kind of cash register when you decide to pay .
the staff are equipped with ipads to take your payment while you relax on a sofa .
which is nothing more or less than excellent service , if you have the money .
but across society , the abstraction of the idea of cash makes me uneasy .
maybe i'm just old-fashioned .
but earning money isn't quick or easy for most of us .
isn't it a bit weird that spending it should happen in half a blink of an eye ?
doesn't a wallet-that time-honoured friday-night feeling of pleasing , promising fatness-represent something that matters ?
but i'll leave the economics to the experts .
what bothers me about the death of the wallet is the change it represents in our physical environment .
everything about the look and feel of a wallet-the way the fastenings and materials wear and tear and loosen with age , the plastic and paper and gold and silver , and handwritten phone numbers and printed cinema tickets-is the very opposite of what our world is becoming .
the opposite of a wallet is a smartphone or an ipad .
the rounded edges , cool glass , smooth and unknowable as a pebble .
instead of digging through pieces of paper and peering into comers , we move our fingers left and right .
no more counting out coins .
show your wallet , if you still have one .
it may not be here much longer .
everybody sleeps , but what people stay up late to catch-or wake up early in order not to miss ? varies by culture .
from data collected , it seems the things that cause us to lose the most sleep , on average , are sporting events , time changes , and holidays .
around the world , people changed sleep patterns thanks to the start or end of daylight savings time .
russians , for example , began to wake up about a half-hour later each day after president vladimir putin shifted the country permanently to " winter time " starting on october 26 .
russia's other late nights and early mornings generally correspond to public holidays .
on new year's eve , russians have the world's latest bedtime , hitting the hay at around 3:30 a . m .
russians also get up an hour later on international women's day , the day for treating and celebrating female relatives .
similarly , americans ' late nights , late mornings , and longest sleeps fall on three-day weekends .
canada got the least sleep of the year the night it beat sweden in the olympic hockey final .
the world cup is also chiefly responsible for sleep deprivation .
the worst night for sleep in the u . k . was the night of the england-italy match on june 14 .
brits stayed up a half-hour later to watch it , and then they woke up earlier than usual the next morning thanks to summer nights , the phenomenon in which the sun barely sets in northern countries in the summertime .
that was nothing , though , compared to germans , italians , and the french , who stayed up around an hour and a half later on various days throughout the summer to watch the cup .
it should be made clear that not everyone has a device to record their sleep patterns ; in some of these nations , it's likely that only the richest people do .
and people who elect to track their sleep may try to get more sleep than the average person .
even if that's the case , though , the above findings are still striking .
if the most health-conscious among us have such deep swings in our shut-eye levels throughout the year , how much sleep are the rest of us losing ?
the perfect essay
a ) looking back on too many years of education , i can identify one truly impossible teacher .
she cared about me , and my intellectual life , even when i didn't .
her expectations were high-impossibly so .
she was an english teacher .
she was also my mother .
b ) when good students turn in an essay , they dream of their instructor returning it to them in exactly the same condition , save for a single word added in the margin of the final page : " flawless . "
this dream came true for me one afternoon in the ninth grade .
of course , i had heard that genius could show itself at an early age , so i was only slightly taken aback that i had achieved perfection at the tender age of 14 .
obviously , i did what any professional writer would do; i hurried off to spread the good news .
i didn't get very far .
the first person i told was my mother .
c ) my mother , who is just shy of five feet tall , is normally incredibly soft-spoken , but on the rare occasion when she got angry , she was terrifying .
i am not sure if she was more upset by my hubris or by the fact that my english teacher had let my ego get so out of hand .
in any event , my mother and her red pen showed me how deeply flawed a flawless essay could be .
at the time , i am sure she thought she was teaching me about mechanics , transitions , structure , style and voice .
but what i learned , and what stuck with me through my time teaching writing at harvard , was a deeper lesson about the nature of creative criticism .
d ) first off , it hurts .
genuine criticism , the type that leaves a lasting mark on you as a writer , also leaves an existential imprint on you as a person .
i have heard people say that a writer should never take criticism personally .
i say that we should never listen to these people .
e ) criticism , at its best , is deeply personal , and gets to the heart of why we write the way we do .
the intimate nature of genuine criticism implies something about who is able to give it , namely , someone who knows you well enough to show you how your mental life is getting in the way of good writing .
conveniently , they are also the people who care enough to see you through this painful realization .
for me it took the form of my first , and i hope only , encounter with writer's block-i was not able to produce anything for three years .
f ) franz kafka once said : " writing is utter solitude , the descent into the cold abyss of oneself . "
my mother's criticism had shown me that kafka is right about the cold abyss , and when you make the introspective descent that writing requires you are not always pleased by what you find .
but , in the years that followed , her sustained tutoring suggested that kafka might be wrong about the solitude .
i was lucky enough to find a critic and teacher who was willing to make the journey of writing with me .
" it is a thing of no great difficulty , " according to plutarch , " to raise objections against another man's speech , it is a very easy matter ; but to produce a better in its place is a work extremely troublesome . "
i am sure i wrote essays in the later years of high school without my mother's guidance , but i can't recall them .
what i remember , however , is how she took up the " extremely troublesome " work of ongoing criticism .
g ) there are two ways to interpret plutarch when he suggests that a critic should be able to produce " a better in its place . "
in a straightforward sense , he could mean that a critic must be more talented than the artist she critiques .
my mother was well covered on this count .
but perhaps plutarch is suggesting something slightly different , something a bit closer to marcus cicero's claim that one should " criticize by creation , not by finding fault . "
genuine criticism creates a precious opening for an author to become better on his own terms-a process that is often extremely painful , but also almost always meaningful .
h ) my mother said she would help me with my writing , but first i had to help myself .
for each assignment , i was to write the best essay i could .
real criticism is not meant to find obvious mistakes , so if she found any-the type i could have found on my own-i had to start from scratch .
from scratch .
once the essay was " flawless , " she would take an evening to walk me through my errors .
that was when true criticism , the type that changed me as a person , began .
i ) she criticized me when i included little-known references and professional jargon ? she had no patience for brilliant but irrelevant figures of speech .
" writers can't bluff their way through ignorance . "
that was news to me-i would need to find another way to structure my daily existence .
j ) she trimmed back my flowery language , drew lines through my exclamation marks and argued for the value of restraint in expression . "
john , " she almost whispered .
i leaned in to hear her : " i can't hear you when you shout at me . "
so i stopped shouting and bluffing , and slowly my writing improved .
k ) somewhere along the way i set aside my hopes of writing that flawless essay .
but perhaps i missed something important in my mother's lessons about creativity and perfection .
perhaps the point of writing the flawless essay was not to give up , but to never willingly finish .
whitman repeatedly reworked " song of myself ' between 1855 and 1891 .
repeatedly .
we do our absolute best with a piece of writing , and come as close as we can to the ideal .
and , for the time being , we settle .
in critique , however , we are forced to depart , to give up the perfection we thought we had achieved for the chance of being even a little bit better .
this is the lesson i took from my mother ..
if perfection were possible , it would not be motivating .
could you reproduce silicon valley elsewhere , or is there something unique about it ?
it wouldn't be surprising if it were hard to reproduce in other countries , because you couldn't reproduce it in most of the us either .
what does it take to make a silicon valley ?
it's the right people .
if you could get the right ten thousand people to move from silicon valley to buffalo , buffalo would become silicon valley .
you only need two kinds of people to create a technology hub : rich people and nerds
observation bears this out .
within the us , towns have become startup hubs if and only if they have both rich people and nerds .
few startups happen in miami , for example , because although it's full of rich people , it has few nerds .
it's not the kind of place nerds like .
whereas pittsburgh has the opposite problem : plenty of nerds , but no rich people .
the top us computer science departments are said to be mit , stanford , berkeley , and carnegie-mellon .
mit yielded route 128 .
stanford and berkeley yielded silicon valley .
but what did cainegie-mellon yield in pittsburgh ?
and what happened in ithaca , home of cornell university , which is also high on the list ?
i grew up in pittsburgh and went to college at cornell , so i can answer for both .
the weather is terrible , particularly in winter , and there's no interesting old city to make up for it , as there is in boston .
rich people don't want to live in pittsburgh or ithaca .
so while there're plenty of hackers who could start startups , there's no one to invest in them .
do you really need the rich people ?
wouldn't it work to have the government invest in the nerds ?
no , it would not .
startup investors are a distinct type of rich people .
they tend to have a lot of experience themselves in the technology business .
this helps them pick the right startups , and means they can supply advice and connections as well as money .
and the fact that they have a personal stake in the outcome makes them really pay attention .
it's nice to have people of like mind around .
agreeable people boost your confidence and allow you to relax and feel comfortable .
unfortunately , that comfort can hinder the very learning that can expand your company and your career .
it's nice to have people agree , but you need conflicting perspectives to dig out the truth .
if everyone around you has similar views , your work will suffer from confirmation bias .
take a look at your own network .
do your contacts share your point of view on most subjects ?
if yes , it's time to shake things up .
as a leader , it can be challenging to create an environment in which people will freely disagree and argue , but as the saying goes : from confrontation comes brilliance .
it's not easy for most people to actively seek conflict .
many spend their lives trying to avoid arguments .
there's no need to go out and find people you hate , but you need to do some self-assessment to determine where you have become stale in your thinking .
you may need to start by encouraging your current network to help you identify your blind spots .
passionate , energetic debate does not require anger and hard feelings to be effective .
but it does require moral strength .
once you have worthy opponents , set some ground rules so everyone understands responsibilities and boundaries .
the objective of this debating game is not to win but to get to the truth that will allow you to move faster , farther , and better .
fierce debating can hurt feelings , particularly when strong personalities are involved .
make sure you check in with your opponents so that they are not carrying the emotion of the battles beyond the battlefield .
break the tension with smiles and humor to reinforce the idea that this is friendly discourse and that all are working toward a common goal .
reward all those involved in the debate sufficiently when the goals are reached .
let your sparring partners know how much you appreciate their contribution .
the more they feel appreciated , the more they'll be willing to get into the ring next time .
finding the right home — and contentment , too when your elderly relative needs to enter some sort of long-term care facility — a momentfew parents or children approach without fear — what you would like is to have everything madeclear .
does assisted living really mark a great improvement over a nursing home , or has theindustry simply hired better interior designers ?
are nursing homes as bad as people fear , or isthat an out-moded stereotype ?
can doing one's homework really steer families tothe best places ?
it is genuinely hard to know .
i am about to make things more complicated by suggesting that what kind of facility anolder person lives in may matter less than we have assumed .
and that the characteristicsadult children look for when they begin the search are not necessarily the things that make adifference to the people who are going to move in .
i am not talking about the quality of care , let me hastily add .
nobody flourishes in a gloomy environment with irresponsible staff anda poor safety record .
but an accumulating body of research indicates that some distinctionsbetween one type of elder care and another have little real bearing on how well residents do .
the most recent of these studies , published in the journal of applied gerontology , surveyed 150 connecticut residents of assisted living , nursing homes and smaller residential care homes ( known in some states as board and care homes or adult care homes ) .
researchers from theuniversity of connecticut health center asked the residents a large number of questions abouttheir quality of life , emotional well-being and social interaction , as well as about thequality of the facilities .
" we thought we would see differences based on the housing types , " said the lead author ofthe study , julie robison , an associate professor of medicine at the university .
a reasonableassumption — don't families struggle to avoid nursing homes and suffer real guilt if theycan't ?
in the initial results , assisted living residents did paint the most positive picture .
they wereless likely to report symptoms of depression than those in the other facilities , for instance , andless likely to be bored or lonely .
they scored higher on social interaction .
but when the researchers plugged in a number of other variables , such differencesdisappeared .
it is not the housing type , they found , that creates differences in residents'responses .
" it is the characteristics of the specific environment they are in , combined withtheir own personal characteristics — how healthy they feel they are , their age and maritalstatus , " dr . robison explained .
whether residents felt involved in the decision to move andhow long they had lived there also proved significant .
an elderly person who describes herself as in poor health , therefore , might be no lessdepressed in assisted living ( even if her children preferred it ) than in a nursing home .
aperson who had input into where he would move and has had time to adapt to it might do aswell in a nursing home as in a small residential care home , other factors being equal .
it is aninteraction between the person and the place , not the sort of place in itself , that leads tobetter or worse experiences .
" you can't just say , ' let's put this person in a residential care homeinstead of a nursing home — she will be much better off , ' " dr . robison said .
what matters , sheadded , " is a combination of what people bring in with them , and what they find there . "
such findings , which run counter to common sense , have surfaced before .
in a multi-statestudy of assisted living , for instance , university of north carolina researchers found that a hostof variables — the facility's type , size or age ; whether a chain owned it ; how attractive theneighborhood was — had no significant relationship to how the residents fared in terms of illness , mental decline , hospitalizations or mortality .
what mattered most was the residents , physicalhealth and mental status .
what people were like when they came in had greaterconsequence than what happened once they were there .
as i was considering all this , a press release from a respected research firm crossed mydesk , announcing that the five-star rating system that medicare developed in 2008 to helpfamilies compare nursing home quality also has little relationship to how satisfied its residentsor their family members are .
as a matter of fact , consumers expressed higher satisfactionwith the one-star facilities , the lowest rated , than with the five-star ones .
( more on this studyand the star ratings will appear in a subsequent post . )
before we collectively tear our hair out — how are we supposed to find our way in alandscape this confusing ? — here is a thought from dr . philip sloane , a geriatrician at the university of north carolina ： " in a way , that could be liberating for families . "
of course , sons and daughters want to visit the facilities , talk to the administrators andresidents and other families , and do everything possible to fulfill their duties .
but perhaps theydon't have to turn themselves into private investigators or congressional subcommittees .
" families can look a bit more for where the residents are going to be happy , " dr . sloane said.and involving the future resident in the process can be very important .
we all have our own ideas about what would bring our parents happiness .
they have theirideas , too .
a friend recently took her mother to visit an expensive assisted living / nursing homenear my town .
i have seen this place — it is elegant , inside and out .
but nobody greeted thedaughter and mother when they arrived , though the visit had been planned ; nobody introducedthem to the other residents .
when they had lunch in the dining room , they sat alone at a table .
the daughter feared her mother would be ignored there , and so she decided to move herinto a more welcoming facility .
based on what is emerging from some of this research , thatmight have been as rational a way as any to reach a decision .
as artificial intelligence ( ai ) becomes increasingly sophisticated , there are growing concernsthat robots could become a threat .
this danger can be avoided , according to computer scienceprofessor stuart russell , if we figure out how to turn human values into a programmable code .
russell argues that as robots take on more complicated tasks , it's necessary to translate ourmorals into ai language .
for example , if a robot does chores around the house , you wouldn't want it to put the pet cat inthe oven to make dinner for the hungry children .
" you would want that robot preloaded with agood set of values , " said russell .
some robots are already programmed with basic human values .
for example , mobile robotshave been programmed to keep a comfortable distance from humans .
obviously there arecultural differences , but if you were talking to another person and they came up close in yourpersonal space , you wouldn't think that's the kind of thing a properly brought-up person woulddo .
it will be possible to create more sophisticated moral machines , if only we can find a way toset out human values as clear rules .
robots could also learn values from drawing patterns from large sets of data on humanbehavior .
they are dangerous only if programmers are careless .
the biggest concern with robots going against human values is that human beings fail to dosufficient testing and they've produced a system that will break some kind of taboo .
one simple check would be to program a robot to check the correct course of action with ahuman when presented with an unusual situation .
if the robot is unsure whether an animal is suitable for the microwave , it has the opportunityto stop , send out beeps , and ask for directions from a human .
if we humans aren'tquite sure about a decision , we go and ask somebody else .
the most difficult step in programming values will be deciding exactly what we believe is moral , and how to create a set of ethical rules .
but if we come up with an answer , robots could begood for humanity .
why do some people live to be older than others ?
you know the standard explanations : keepinga moderate diet , engaging in regular exercise , etc .
but what effect does your personality haveon your longevity ?
do some kinds of personalities lead to longer lives ?
a new study inthe journal of american geriatrics society looked at this question by examining the personalitycharacteristics of 246 children of people who had lived to be at least 100 .
the study shows that those living the longest are more outgoing , more active and lessneuroticthan other people .
long-living women are also more likely to be sympatheticand cooperative than women with a normal life span .
these findings are in agreement withwhat you would expect from the evolutionary theory : those who like to make friends and helpothers can gather enough resources to make it through tough times .
interestingly , however , other characteristics that you might consider advantageous had noimpact on whether study participants were likely to live longer .
those who were more self-disciplined , for instance , were no more likely to live to be very old .
also , being open to newideas had no relationship to long life , which might explain all those bad-tempered old peoplewho are fixed in their ways .
whether you can successfully change your personality as an adult is the subject of alongstanding psychological debate .
but the new paper suggests that if you want long life , you should strive to be as outgoing as possible .
unfortunately , another recent study shows that your mother's personality may also helpdetermine your longevity .
that study looked at nearly 28,000 norwegian mothers and foundthat those moms who were more anxious , depressed and angry were more likely to feed theirkids unhealthy diets .
patterns of childhood eating can be hard to break when we're adults , which may mean that kids of depressed moms end up dying younger .
personality isn't destiny , and everyone knows that individuals can learn to change .
butboth studies show that long life isn't just a matter of your physical health but of your mentalhealth .
could food shortages bring down civilization ?
for many years i have studied global agricultural , population , environmental and economic trends and their interactions .
the combined effects of those trends and the political tensions they generate point to the breakdown of governments and societies .
yet i , too , have resisted the idea that food shortages could bring down not only individual governments but also our global civilization .
i can no longer ignore that risk .
our continuing failure to deal with the environmental declines that are undermining the world food economy forces me to conclude that such a collapse is possible .
as demand for food rises faster than supplies are growing , the resulting food-price inflation puts severe stress on the governments of many countries .
unable to buy grain or grow their own , hungry people take to the streets .
indeed , even before the steep climb in grain prices in 2008 , the number of failing states was expanding .
if the food situation continues to worsen , entire nations will break down at an ever increasing rate .
in the 20th century the main threat to international security was superpower conflict ; today it is failing states .
states fail when national governments can no longer provide personal security , food security and basic social services such as education and health care .
when governments lose their control on power , law and order begin to disintegrate .
after a point , countries can become so dangerous that food relief workers are no longer safe and their programs are halted .
failing states are of international concern because they are a source of terrorists , drugs , weapons and refugees , threatening political stability everywhere .
the surge in world grain prices in 2007 and 2008 — and the threat they pose to food security — has a different , more troubling quality than the increases of the past .
during the second half of the 20th century , grain prices rose dramatically several times .
in 1972 , for instance , the soviets , recognizing their poor harvest early , quietly cornered the world wheat market .
as a result , wheat prices elsewhere more than doubled , pulling rice and corn prices up with them .
but this and other price shocks were event-driven — drought in the soviet union , crop-shrinking heat in the u . s . corn belt .
and the rises were short-lived : prices typically returned to normal with the next harvest .
in contrast , the recent surge in world grain prices is trend-driven , making it unlikely to reverse without a reversal in the trends themselves .
on the demand side , those trends include the ongoing addition of more than 70 million people a year , a growing number of people wanting to move up the food chain to consume highly grain-intensive meat products , and the massive diversion of u . s . grain to the production of bio-fuel .
as incomes rise among low-income consumers , the potential for further grain consumption is huge .
but that potential pales beside the never-ending demand for crop-based fuels .
a fourth of this year's u . s . grain harvest will go to fuel cars .
what about supply ?
the three environmental trends — the shortage of fresh water , the loss of topsoil and the rising temperatures — are making it increasingly hard to expand the world's grain supply fast enough to keep up with demand .
of all those trends , however , the spread of water shortages poses the most immediate threat .
the biggest challenge here is irrigation , which consumes 70 % of the world's fresh water .
millions of irrigation wells in many countries are now pumping water out of underground sources faster than rainfall can refill them .
the result is falling water tables in countries with half the world's people , including the three big grain producers — china , india and the u . s .
as water tables have fallen and irrigation wells have gone dry , china's wheat crop , the world's largest , has declined by 8 % since it peaked at 123 million tons in 1997 .
but water shortages are even more worrying in india .
millions of irrigation wells have significantly lowered water tables in almost every state .
as the world's food security falls to pieces , individual countries acting in their own self-interest are actually worsening the troubles of many .
the trend began in 2007 , when leading wheat-exporting countries such as russia and argentina limited or banned their exports , in hopes of increasing local food supplies and thereby bringing down domestic food prices .
vietnam banned its exports for several months for the same reason .
such moves may eliminate the fears of those living in the exporting countries , but they are creating panic in importing countries that must rely on what is then left for export .
in response to those restrictions , grain-importing countries are trying to nail down long-term trade agreements that would lock up future grain supplies .
food-import anxiety is even leading to new efforts by food-importing countries to buy or lease farmland in other countries .
in spite of such temporary measures , soaring food prices and spreading hunger in many other countries are beginning to break down the social order .
since the current world food shortage is trend-driven , the environmental trends that cause it must be reversed .
we must cut carbon emissions by 80 % from their 2006 levels by 2020 , stabilize the world's population at eight billion by 2040 , completely remove poverty , and restore forests and soils .
there is nothing new about the four objectives .
indeed , we have made substantial progress in some parts of the world on at least one of these — the distribution of family-planning services and the associated shift to smaller families .
for many in the development community , the four objectives were seen as positive , promoting development as long as they did not cost too much .
others saw them as politically correct and morally appropriate .
now a third and far more significant motivation presents itself : meeting these goals may be necessary to prevent the collapse of our civilization .
yet the cost we project for saving civilization would amount to less than $ 200 billion a year , 1/6 of current global military spending .
in effect , our plan is the new security budget .
declining mental function is often seen as a problem of old age , but certain aspects of brain function actually begin their decline in young adulthood , a new study suggests .
the study , which followed more than 2,000 healthy adults between the ages of 18 and 60 , found that certain mental functions — including measures of abstract reasoning , mental speed and puzzle-solving — started to dull as early as age 27 .
dips in memory , meanwhile , generally became apparent around age 37 .
on the other hand , indicators of a person's accumulated knowledge — like performance on tests of vocabulary and general knowledge — kept improving with age , according to findings published in the journal neurobiology of aging .
the results do not mean that young adults need to start worrying about their memories .
most people's minds function at a high level even in their later years , according to researcher timothy salthouse .
" these patterns suggest that some types of mental flexibility decrease relatively early in adulthood , but that the amount of knowledge one has , and the effectiveness of integrating it with one's abilities , may increase throughout all of adulthood if there are no diseases , " salthouse said in a news release .
the study included healthy , educated adults who took standard tests of memory , reasoning and perception at the outset and at some point over the next seven years .
the tests are designed to detect subtle changes in mental function , and involve solving puzzles , recalling words and details from stories , and identifying patterns in collections of letters and symbols .
in general , salthouse and his colleagues found , certain aspects of cognition generally started to decline in the late 20s to 30s .
the findings shed light on normal age-related changes in mental function , which could aid in understanding the process of dementia , according to the researchers .
" by following individuals over time , " salthouse said , " we gain insight in cognition changes , and may possibly discover ways to slow the rate of decline . "
the researchers are currently analyzing the study participants ' health and lifestyle to see which factors might influence age-related cognitive changes .
the most important thing in the news last week was the rising discussion in nashville about the educational needs of children .
the shorthand educators use for this is " pre-k " — meaning instruction before kindergarten — and the big idea is to prepare 4 - year-olds and even younger kids to be ready to succeed on their k - 12 journey .
but it gets complicated .
the concept has multiple forms , and scholars and policymakers argue about the shape , scope and cost of the ideal program .
the federal head start program , launched 50 years ago , has served more than 30 million children .
it was based on concepts developed at vanderbilt university's peabody college by susan gray , the legendary pioneer in early childhood education research .
a new peabody study of the tennessee voluntary pre-k program reports that pre-k works , but the gains are not sustained through the third grade .
it seems to me this highlights quality issues in elementary schools more than pre-k , and indicates longer-term success must connect pre-k with all the other issues related to educating a child .
pre-k is controversial .
some critics say it is a luxury and shouldn't be free to families able to pay .
pre-k advocates insist it is proven and will succeed if integrated with the rest of the child's schooling .
i lean toward the latter view .
this is , in any case , the right conversation to be having now as mayor megan barry takes office .
she was the first candidate to speak out for strong pre-k programming .
the important thing is for all of us to keep in mind the real goal and the longer , bigger picture .
the weight of the evidence is on the side of pre-k that early intervention works .
what government has not yet found is the political will to put that understanding into full practice with a sequence of smart schooling that provides the early foundation .
for this purpose , our schools need both the talent and the organization to educate each child who arrives at the schoolhouse door .
some show up ready , but many do not at this critical time when young brains are developing rapidly .
is it possible to enjoy a peaceful life in a world that is increasingly challenged by threatsand uncertainties from wars , terrorism , economic crises and a widespread outbreak ofinfectious diseases ?
the answer is yes , according to a new book the 10 golden rules : ancientwisdom from the greek philosophers on living a good life .
the book is co-authored by longisland university's philosophy professor michael soupios and economics professor panosmourdoukoutas .
the wisdom of the ancient greek philosophers is timeless , says soupios .
the philosophyprofessor says it is as relevant today as when it was first written centuries ago .
" there is noexpiration date on wisdom , " he says .
" there is no shelf life on intelligence .
i think thatthings have become very gloomy these days , lots of misunderstanding , misleading cues , alot of what the ancients would have called sophistry .
the nice thing about ancientphilosophy as offered by the greeks is that they tended to see life clear and whole , in a way thatwe tend not to see life today . "
examine your life soupios , along with his co-author panos mourdoukoutas , developed their 10 golden rules byturning to the men behind that philosophy — aristotle , socrates , epictetus and pythagoras , among others .
the first rule — examine your life — is the common thread that runs through theentire book .
soupios says that it is based on plato's observation that the unexamined life isnot worth living .
" the greeks are always concerned about boxing themselves in , in terms ofconvictions , " he says .
" so take a step back , switch off the automatic pilot and actuallystop and reflect about things like our priorities , our values , and our relationships . "
stop worrying about what you can not control as we begin to examine our life , soupios says , we come to rule no .
2 : worry only aboutthings that you can control .
" the individual who promoted this idea was a stoic philosopher.his name is epictetus , " he says .
" and what the stoics say in general is simply this : there is alarger plan in life .
you are not really going to be able to understand all of the dimensions ofthis plan .
you are not going to be able to control the dimensions of this plan . "
so , soupios explains , it is not worth it to waste our physical , intellectual and spiritualenergy worrying about things that are beyond our control .
" i can not control whether or not iwind up getting the disease swine flu , for example , " he says .
" i mean , there are somecautious steps i can take , but ultimately i can not guarantee myself that .
so what epictetuswould say is sitting at home worrying about that would be wrong and wasteful and irrational.you should live your life attempting to identify and control those things which you cangenuinely control . "
seek true pleasure to have a meaningful , happy life we need friends .
but according to aristotle — a student ofplato and teacher of alexander the great — most relationships don't qualify as true friendships .
" just because i have a business relationship with an individual and i can profit from thatrelationship , it does not necessarily mean that this person is my friend , " soupios says .
" realfriendship is when two individuals share the same soul .
it is a beautiful and uncharacteristicallypoetic image that aristotle offers . "
in our pursuit of the good life , he says , it is important to seek out true pleasures — advicewhich was originally offered by epicurus .
but unlike the modern definition of epicureanism as alife of indulgence and luxury , for the ancient greeks , it meant finding a state of calm , peace and mental ease .
" this was the highest and most desirable form of pleasure and happiness for the ancientepicureans , " soupios says .
" this is something that is very much well-worth considering here inthe modern era .
i do not think that we spend nearly enough time trying to concentrate onachieving a sort of calmness , a sort of contentment in a mental and spiritual way , whichwas identified by these people as the highest form of happiness and pleasure . "
do good to others other golden rules counsel us to master ourselves , to avoid excess and not to be aprosperous fool .
there are also rules dealing with interpersonal relationships : be aresponsible human being and do not do evil things to others .
" this is hesiod , of course , a younger contemporary poet , we believe , with homer , " soupiossays .
" hesiod offers an idea — which you very often find in some of the world ’ s great religions , inthe judeo-christian tradition and in islam and others — that in some sense , when you hurtanother human being , you hurt yourself .
that damaging other people in your community andin your life , trashing relationships , results in a kind of self-inflicted spiritualwound . "
instead , soupios says , ancient wisdom urges us to do good .
golden rule no .
10 for a goodlife is that kindness toward others tends to be rewarded .
" this is aesop , the fabulist , the man of these charming little tales , often told interms of animals and animal relationships , " he says .
" i think what aesop was suggesting is thatwhen you offer a good turn to another human being , one can hope that that good deed willcome back and sort of pay a profit to you , the doer of the good deed .
even if there is noconcrete benefit paid in response to your good deed , at the very least , the doer of the gooddeed has the opportunity to enjoy a kind of spiritually enlightened moment .
soupios says following the 10 golden rules based on ancient wisdom can guide us to thepath of the good life where we stop living as onlookers and become engaged and happierhuman beings .
and that , he notes , is a life worth living .
attitudes toward new technologies often fall along generational lines .
that is , generally , youngerpeople tend to outnumber older people on the front end of a technological shift .
it is not always the case , though .
when you look at attitudes toward driverless cars , theredoesn't seem to be a clear generational divide .
the public overall is split on whether they'dlike to use a driverless car .
in a study last year , of all people surveyed , 48 percent said theywanted to ride in one , while 50 percent did not .
the fact that attitudes toward self-driving cars appear to be so steady across generationssuggests how transformative the shift to driverless cars could be .
not everyone wants adriverless car now — and no one can get one yet — but among those who are open to them , everyage group is similarly engaged .
actually , this isn't surprising .
whereas older generations are sometimes reluctant to adoptnew technologies , driverless cars promise real value to these age groups in particular .
olderadults , especially those with limited mobility or difficulty driving on their own , are one of theclassic use-cases for driverless cars .
this is especially interesting when you consider that younger people are generally moreinterested in travel-related technologies than older ones .
when it comes to driverless cars , differences in attitude are more pronounced based on factorsnot related to age .
college graduates , for example , are particularly interested in driverless carscompared with those who have less education : 59 percent of college graduates said they wouldlike to use a driverless car compared with 38 percent of those with a high-school diploma orless .
where a person lives matters , too .
more people who lived in cities and suburbs said they wantedto try driverless cars than those who lived in rural areas .
while there's reason to believe that interest in self-driving cars is going up across the board , aperson's age will have little to do with how self-driving cars can become mainstream .
oncedriverless cars are actually available for sale , the early adopters will be the people who canafford to buy them .
in agrarian , pre-industrial europe , " you'd want to wake up early , start working withthe sunrise , have a break to have the largest meal , and then you'd go back to work , " says kenalbala , a professor of history at the university of the pacific .
" later , at 5 or 6 , you'd have asmaller supper . "
this comfortable cycle , in which the rhythms of the day helped shape the rhythms of the meals , gave rise to the custom of the large midday meal , eaten with the extended family .
" meals arethe foundation of the family , " says carole counihan , a professor at millersville university inpennsylvania , " so there was a very important interconnection between eating together " andstrengthening family ties .
since industrialization , maintaining such a slow cultural metabolism has been much harder , with the long midday meal shrinking to whatever could be stuffed into a lunch bucket orbought at a food stand .
certainly , there were benefits .
modern techniques for producing andshipping food led to greater variety and quantity , including a tremendous increase in theamount of animal protein and dairy products available , making us more vigorous than ourancestors .
yet plenty has been lost too , even in cultures that still live to eat .
take italy .
it ’ s no secret thatthe mediterranean diet is healthy , but it was also a joy to prepare and eat .
italians , sayscounihan , traditionally began the day with a small meal .
the big meal came at around 1 p.m.in between the midday meal and a late , smaller dinner came a small snack .
today , when timezones have less and less meaning , there is little tolerance for offices ’ closing for lunch , andworsening traffic in cities means workers can't make it home and back fast enough anyway .
sothe formerly small supper after sundown becomes the big meal of the day , the only one atwhich the family has a chance to get together .
" the evening meal carries the full burden thatused to be spread over two meals , " says counihan .
the blessing and curse of the people who never forget
a handful of people can recall almost every day of their lives in enormous detail — and after years of research , neuroscientists are finally beginning to understand how they do it .
for most of us , memory is a mess of blurred and faded pictures of our lives .
as much as we would like to cling on to our past , even the saddest moments can be washed away with time .
ask nima veiseh what he was doing for any day in the past 15 years , however , and he will give you the details of the weather , what he was wearing , or even what side of the train he was sitting on his journey to work .
" my memory is like a library of video tapes , walk-throughs of every day of my life from waking to sleeping , " he explains .
veiseh can even put a date on when those tapes started recording : 15 december 2000 , when he met his first girlfriend at his best friend's 16th birthday party .
he had always had a good memory , but the thrill of young love seems to have shifted a gear in his mind : from now on , he would start recording his whole life in detail .
" i could tell you everything about every day after that . "
needless to say , people like veiseh are of great interest to neuroscientists hoping to understand the way the brain records our lives .
a couple of recent papers have finally opened a window on these people ’ s extraordinary minds .
and such research might even suggest ways for us all to relive our past with greater clarity .
" highly superior autobiographical memory " ( or hsam for short ) first came to light in the early 2000s , with a young woman named jill price .
emailing the neuroscientist and memory researcher jim mcgaugh one day , she claimed that she could recall every day of her life since the age of 12 .
could he help explain her experiences ?
mcgaugh invited her to his lab , and began to test her : he would give her a date and ask her to tell him about the world events on that day .
true to her word , she was correct almost every time .
it didn ’ t take long for magazines and documentary film-makers to come to understand her " total recall " ， and thank to the subsequent media interest , a few dozen other subjects ( including veiseh ) have since come forward and contacted the team at the university of california , irvine .
interestingly , their memories are highly self-centred : although they can remember " autobiographical " life events in extraordinary detail , they seem to be no better than average at recalling impersonal information , such as random lists of words .
nor are they necessarily better at remembering a round of drinks , say .
and although their memories are vast , they are still likely to suffer from " false memories " . clearly , there is no such thing as a " perfect " memory — their extraordinary minds are still using the same flawed tools that the rest of us rely on .
the question is , how ?
lawrence patihis at the university of southern mississippi recently studied around 20 people with hsam and found that they scored particularly high on two measures : fantasy proneness and absorption .
fantasy proneness could be considered a tendency to imagine and daydream , whereas absorption is the tendency to allow your mind to become fully absorbed in an activity to pay complete attention to the sensations and the experiences .
" i ’ m extremely sensitive to sounds , smells and visual detail , " explains nicole donohue , who has taken part in many of these studies .
" i definitely feel things more strongly than the average person . "
the absorption helps them to establish strong foundations for recollection , says patihis , and the fantasy proneness means that they revisit those memories again and again in the coming weeks and months .
each time this initial memory trace is " replayed " , it becomes even stronger .
in some ways , you probably go through that process after a big event like your wedding day , but the difference is that thanks to their other psychological tendencies , the hsam subjects are doing it day in , day out , for the whole of their lives .
not everyone with a tendency to fantasise will develop hsam , though , so patihis suggests that something must have caused them to think so much about their past .
" maybe some experience in their childhood meant that they became obsessed with calendars and what happened to them , " says patihis .
the people with hsam i ’ ve interviewed would certainly agree that it can be a mixed blessing .
on the plus side , it allows you to relive the most transformative and enriching experiences .
veiseh , for instance , travelled a lot in his youth .
in his spare time , he visited the local art galleries , and the paintings are now lodged deep in his autobiographical memories .
" imagine being able to remember every painting , on every wall , in every gallery space , between nearly 40 countries ， " he says .
" that ’ s a big education in art by itself . "
with this comprehensive knowledge of the history of art , he has since become a professional painter .
donohue , now a history teacher , agrees that it helped during certain parts of her education .
" i can definitely remember what i learned on certain days at school .
i could imagine what the teacher was saying or what it looked like in the book . "
not everyone with hsam has experienced these benefits , however .
viewing the past in high definition can make it very difficult to get over pain and regret .
" it can be very hard to forget embarrassing moments , " says donohue .
" you feel the same emotions — it is just as raw , just as fresh ... you can ’ t turn off that stream of memories , no matter how hard you try . "
veiseh agrees .
" it is like having these open wounds — they are just a part of you , " he says .
this means they often have to make a special effort to lay the past to rest .
bill , for instance , often gets painful " flashbacks " ， in which unwanted memories intrude into his consciousness , but overall he has chosen to see it as the best way of avoiding repeating the same mistakes .
" some people are absorbed in the past but not open to new memories , but that ’ s not the case for me .
i look forward to each day and experiencing something new . "
the phrase almost completes itself : midlife crisis .
it ’ s the stage in the middle of the journey when people feel youth vanishing , their prospects narrowing and death approaching .
there ’ s only one problem with the cliché . it isn ’ t true .
" in fact , there is almost no hard evidence for midlife crisis other than a few small pilot studies conducted decades ago , " barbara hagerty writes in her new book , life reimagined .
the vast bulk of the research shows that there may be a pause , or a shifting of gears in the 40s or 50s , but this shift " can be exciting , rather than terrifying " .
barbara hagerty looks at some of the features of people who turn midlife into a rebirth .
they break routines , because " autopilot is death " .
they choose purpose over happinesshaving a clear sense of purpose even reduces the risk of alzheimer ’ s disease .
they give priority to relationships , as careers often recede .
life reimagined paints a picture of middle age that is far from gloomy .
midlife seems like the second big phase of decision-making .
your identity has been formed ; you ’ ve built up your resources ; and now you have the chance to take the big risks precisely because your foundation is already secure .
karl barth described midlife precisely this way .
at middle age , he wrote , " the sowing is behind ; now is the time to reap .
the run has been taken ; now is the time to leap .
preparation has been made ; now is the time for the venture of the work itself . "
the middle-aged person , barth continued , can see death in the distance , but moves with a " measured haste " to get big new things done while there is still time .
what barth wrote decades ago is even truer today .
people are healthy and energetic longer .
we have presidential candidates running for their first term in office at age 68 , 69 and 74 .
a longer lifespan is changing the narrative structure of life itself .
what could have been considered the beginning of a descent is now a potential turning point — the turning point you are most equipped to take full advantage of .
in spring , chickens start laying again , bringing a welcome source of protein at winter ’ s end .
so it ’ s no surprise that cultures around the world celebrate spring by honoring the egg .
some traditions are simple , like the red eggs that get baked into greek easter breads .
others elevate the egg into a fancy art , like the heavily jewel-covered " eggs " that were favored by the russians starting in the 19th century .
one ancient form of egg art comes to us from ukraine .
for centuries , ukrainians have been drawing complicated patterns on eggs .
contemporary artists have followed this tradition to create eggs that speak to the anxieties of our age : life is precious , and delicate .
eggs are , too .
" there ’ s something about their delicate nature that appeals to me , " says new yorker cartoonist roz chast .
several years ago , she became interested in eggs and learned the traditional ukrainian technique to draw her very modem characters .
" i ’ ve broken eggs at every stage of the process — from the very beginning to the very , very end . "
but there ’ s an appeal in that vulnerability .
" there ’ s part of this sickening horror of knowing you ’ re walking on the edge with this , that i kind of like , knowing that it could all fall apart at any second . "
chast ’ s designs , such as a worried man alone in a tiny rowboat , reflect that delicateness .
traditional ukrainian decorated eggs also spoke to those fears .
the elaborate patterns were believed to offer protection against evil .
" there ’ s an ancient legend that as long as these eggs are made , evil will not prevail in the world , " says joan brander , a canadian egg-painter who has been painting eggs for over 60 years , having learned the art from her ukrainian relatives .
the tradition , dating back to 300 b . c . , was later incorporated into the christian church .
the old symbols , however , still endure .
a decorated egg with a bird on it , given to a young married couple , is a wish for children .
a decorated egg thrown into the field would be a wish for a good harvest .
from accountant to yogi : making a radical career change
at some point , almost all of us will experience a period of radical professional change .
some of us will seek it out ; for others it will feel like an unwelcome intrusion into otherwise stable careers .
either way , we have choices about how we respond to it when it comes .
we recently caught up with yoga entrepreneur leah zaccaria , who put herself through the fire of change to completely reinvent herself .
in her search to live a life of purpose , leah left her high-paying accounting job , her husband , and her home , hi the process , she built a radically new life and career .
since then , she has founded two yoga studios , met a new life partner , and formed a new community of people .
even if your personal reinvention is less drastic , we think there are lessons from her experience that apply .
where do the seeds of change come from ?
the native american indians have a saying : " pay attention to the whispers so you won ’ t have to hear the screams . "
often the best ideas for big changes come from unexpected places — it ’ s just a matter of tuning in .
great leaders recognize the weak signals or slight signs that point to big changes to come .
leah reflects on a time she listened to the whispers : " about the time my daughter was five years old .
i started having a sense that " this isn ’ t right .
" ’ she then realized that her life no longer matched her vision for it .
up until that point , leah had followed traditional measures of success .
after graduating with a degree in business and accounting , she joined a public accounting firm , married , bought a house , put lots of stuff in it , and had a baby .
" i did what everybody else thought looked successful , " she says .
leah easily could have fallen into a trap of feeling content ; instead , her energy sparked a period of experimentation and renewal .
feeling the need to change , leah started playing with future possibilities by exploring her interests and developing new capabilities .
first trying physical exercise and dieting , she lost some weight and discovered an inner strength .
" 1 felt powerful because 1 broke through my own limitations , " she recalls .
however , it was another interest that led leah to radically reinvent herself .
" i remember sitting on a bench with my aunt at a yoga studio , ’ ’ she said , having a moment of clarity right then and there : yoga is saving my life .
yoga is waking me up .
i ’ m not happy and i want to change and i ’ m done with this . "
in that moment of clarity leah made an important leap , conquering her inner resistance to change and making a firm commitment to take bigger steps .
creating the future you want is a lot easier if you are ready to exploit the opportunities that come your way .
when leah made the commitment to change , she primed herself to new opportunities she may otherwise have overlooked .
she recalls :
one day a man i worked with , ryan , who had his office next to mine , said , " leah , let ’ s go look at this space on queen anne . "
he knew my love for yoga and had seen a space close to where he lived that he thought might be good to serve as a yoga studio .
as soon as i saw the location , i knew this was it .
of course i was scared , yet i had this strong sense of " i have to do this . "
only a few months later leah opened her first yoga studio , but success was not instant .
creating the future takes time .
that ’ s why leaders continue to manage the present while building toward the big changes of the future .
when it ’ s time to make the leap , they take action and immediately drop what ’ s no longer serving their purpose .
initially leah stayed with her accounting job while starting up the yoga studio to make it all work .
soon after , she knew she had to make a bold move to fully commit to her new future .
within two years , leah shed the safety of her accounting job and made the switch complete .
such drastic change is not easy .
steering through change and facing obstacles brings us face to face with our fears .
leah reflects on one incident that triggered her fears , when her investors threatened to shut her down : " i was probably up against the most fear i ’ ve ever had ， " she says .
" i had spent two years cultivating this community , and it had become successful very fast , but within six months i was facing the prospect of losing it all . "
she connected with her sense of purpose and dug deep , cultivating a tremendous sense of strength .
" i was feeling so intentional and strong that i wasn ’ t going to let fear just take over .
i was thinking , " ok , guys , if you want to try to shut me down , shut me down . ’ and i knew it was a negotiation scheme , so i was able to say to myself , " this is not real . ’ " by naming her fears and facing them head-on , leah gained confidence .
for most of us , letting go of the safety and security of the past gives us great fear .
calling out our fears explicitly , as leah did , can help us act decisively .
the cycle of renewal never ends .
leah ’ s growth spurred her to open her second studio — and it wasn ’ t for the money .
i have no desire to make millions of dollars .
it ’ s not about that ; it ’ s about growth for me .
honestly , i didn ’ t need to open a second studio .
i was making as much money as i was as an accountant .
but i know if you don ’ t grow , you stand still , and that doesn ’ t work for me .
consider the current moment in your own life , your team or your organization .
where are you in the cycle of renewal : are you actively preserving the present , or selectively forgetting the past , or boldly creating the future ?
what advice would leah give you to move you ahead on your journey ?
once we ’ re on the path of growth , we can continually move through the seasons of transformation and renewal .
the urbanization — migration away from the suburbs to the city center — will be the biggest real estate trend in 2015 , according to a new report .
the report says america ’ s urbanization will continue to be the most significant issue affecting the industry , as cities across the country imitate the walkability and transit-oriented development making cities like new york and san francisco so successful .
as smaller cities copy the model of these " 24 - hour cities ， ’ ’ tfiore affordable versions of these places will be created .
the report refers to this as the coming of the " 18 - hour city ， " ， and uses the term to refer to cities like houston , austin , charlotte , and nashville , which are " positioning themselves as highly competitive , in terms of livability , employment offerings , and recreational and cultural facilities . "
another trend that looks significant in 2015 is that america ’ s largest population group , millennials ， will continue to put off buying a house .
apartments will retain their appeal for a while for millennials , haunted by what happened to home-owning parents .
this trend will continue into the 2020s , the report projects .
after that , survey respondents disagree over whether this generation will follow in their parents ， footsteps , moving to the suburbs to raise families , or will choose to remain in the city center .
another issue affecting real estate in the coming year will be america ’ s failing infrastructure .
most roads , bridges , transit , water systems , the electric grid , and communications networks were installed 50 to 100 years ago , and they are largely taken for granted until they fail .
the report ’ s writers state that america ’ s failure to invest in infrastructure impacts not only the health of the real-estate market , but also our ability to remain globally competitive .
apart from the specific trends highlighted above , which cause some investors to worry , the report portrays an overall optimism borne by the recent healthy real-estate " upcycle " and improving economy .
seventy-four percent of the respondents surveyed report a " good to excellent " expectation of real-estate profitability in 2015 .
while excessive optimism can promote bad investment patterns , resulting in a real - estate " bubble , " the report ’ s writers downplay that potential outcome in that it has not yet occurred .
the brain is a seemingly endless library , whose shelves house our most precious memories as well as our lifetime ’ s knowledge .
but is there a point where it reaches capacity ?
the answer is no , because brains are more sophisticated than that .
instead of just crowding in , old information is sometimes pushed out of the brain for new memories to form .
previous behavioural studies have shown that learning new information can lead to forgetting .
but in a new study , researchers demonstrated for the first time how this effect occurs in the brain .
in daily life , forgetting actually has clear advantages .
imagine , for instance , that you lost your bank card .
the new card you receive will come with a new personal identificatipn number ( pin ) .
each time you remember the new pin , you gradually forget the old one .
this process improves access to relevant information , without old memories interfering .
and most of us may sometimes feel the frustration of having old memories interfere with new , relevant memories .
consider trying to remember where you parked your car in the same car park you were at a week earlier .
this type of memory ( where you are trying to remember new , but similar information ) is particularly vulnerable to interference .
when we acquire new information , the brain automatically tries to incorporate it within existing information by forming associations .
and when we retrieve information , both the desired and associated but irrelevant information is recalled . ,
the majority of previous research has focused on how we learn and remember new information .
but current studies are beginning to place greater emphasis on the conditions under which we forget , as its importance begins to be more appreciated .
a very small number of people are able to remember almost every detail of their life .
while it may sound like an advantage to many , people with this rare condition often find their unusual ability burdensome .
in a sense , forgetting is our brain ’ s way of sorting memories , so the most relevant memories are ready for retrieval .
normal forgetting may even be a safety mechanism to ensure our brain doesn ’ t become too full .
team spirit
teams have become the basic building blocks of organizations .
recruitment advertisements routinely call for " team players " .
business schools grade their students in part on their performance in group projects .
office managers knock down walls to encourage team building .
teams are as old as civilization , of course : even jesus had 12 co-workers .
but a new report by deloitte , " global human capital trends " , based on a survey of more than 7,000 executives in over 130 countries , suggests that the fashion for teamwork has reached a new high .
almost half of those surveyed said their companies were either in the middle of restructuring or about to embark on it ; and for the most part , restructuring meant putting more emphasis on teams .
companies are abandoning conventional functional departments and organising employees into cross-disciplinary teams that focus on particular products , problems or customers .
these teams are gaining more power to run their own affairs .
they are also spending more time working with each other rather than reporting upwards .
deloitte argues that a new organisational form is on the rise : a network of teams is replacing the conventional hierarchy .
the fashion for teams is driven by a sense that the old way of organising people is too rigid for both the modem marketplace and the expectations of employees .
technological innovation places greater value on agility . john chambers , chairman of cisco systems inc . , a worldwide leader in electronics products , says that " we compete against market transitions ， not competitors .
product transitions used to take five or seven years ; now they take one or two . "
digital technology also makes it easier for people to co-ordinate their activities without resorting to hierarchy .
the " millennials " who will soon make up half the workforce in rich countries were raised from nursery school onwards to work in groups .
the fashion for teams is also spreading from the usual corporate suspects ( such as ge and ibm ) to some more unusual ones .
the cleveland clinic , a hospital operator , has reorganised its medical staff into teams to focus on particular treatment areas ; consultants , nurses and others collaborate closely instead of being separated by speciality and rank .
the us army has gone the same way .
in his book , " team of teams ' general stanley mcchrystal describes how the army ’ s hierarchical structure hindered its operations during the early stages of the iraq war .
his solution was to learn something from the insurgents it was fighting : decentralise authority to self-organising teams .
a good rule of thumb is that as soon as generals and hospital administrators jump on a management bandwagon , it is time to ask questions .
leigh thompson of kellogg school of management in illinois warns that , " teams are not always the answer — teams may provide insight , creativity and knowledge in a way that a person working independently cannot ; but teamwork may also lead to confusion , delay and poor decision-making . "
the late richard hackman of harvard university once argued , " i have no question that when you have a team , the possibility exists that it will generate magic , producing something extraordinary ...
but don ’ t count on it . "
hackman ( who died in 2013 ) noted that teams are hampered by problems of co-ordination and motivation that chip away at the benefits of collaboration .
high-flyers forced to work in teams may be undervalued and free-riders empowered .
groupthink may be unavoidable .
in a study of 120 teams of senior executives , he discovered that less than 10 % of their supposed members agreed on who exactly was on the team .
if it is hard enough to define a team ’ s membership , agreeing on its purpose is harder still .
profound changes in the workforce are making teams trickier to manage .
teams work best if their members have a strong common culture .
this is hard to achieve when , as is now the case in many big firms , a large proportion of staff are temporary contractors .
teamwork improves with time : america ’ s national transportation safety board found that 73 % of the incidents in its civil-aviation database occurred on a crew ’ s first day of flying together .
however , as amy edmondson of harvard points out , organisations increasingly use " team " as a verb rather than a noun : they form teams for specific purposes and then quickly disband them .
the least that can be concluded from this research is that companies need to think harder about managing teams .
they need to rid their minds of sentimentalism ： the most successful teams have leaders who are able to set an overall direction and take immediate action .
they need to keep teams small and focused : giving in to pressure to be more " inclusive " is a guarantee of dysfunction .
jeff bezos , amazon ’ s boss , says that " if i see more than two pizzas for lunch , the team is too big . "
they need to immunize teams against group-think : hackman argued that the best ones contain " deviants " who are willing to do something that maybe upsetting to others .
a new study of 12,000 workers in 17 countries by steelcase , a furniture-maker which also does consulting , finds that the best way to ensure employees are " engaged " is to give them more control over where and how they do their work ― which may mean liberating them from having to do everything in collaboration with others .
however , organisations need to learn something bigger than how to manage teams better : they need to be in the habit of asking themselves whether teams are the best tools for the job .
teambuilding skills are in short supply : deloitte reports that only 12 % of the executives they contacted feel they understand the way people work together in networks and only 21 % feel confident in their ability to build cross-functional teams .
loosely managed teams can become hotbeds of distraction ― employees routinely complain that they can ’ t get their work done because they are forced to spend too much time in meetings or compelled to work in noisy offices .
even in the age of open-plan offices and social networks some work is best left to the individual .
the shoppers in the uk are spending less money on toilet paper to save money , research has shown .
penny-pinching uk consumers choose cheaper products from discounters such as aldi and lidl rather than luxury alternatives .
this has wiped 6 % off the value of the soft tissue paper market in the uk .
it has shrunk from £ 1.19 billion in 2011 to £ 1.12 billion in 2015 , according to a new report from market research company mintel .
furthermore , the future of the market looks far from rosy , with sales expected to fall further to £ 1.11 billion in 2016 .
in the last year alone , despite an increase in the uk population and a subsequent rise in the number of households , sales of toilet paper fell by 2 % , with the average household reducing their toilet roll spending from £ 43 in 2014 to £ 41 in 2015 .
overall , almost three in five people say they try to limit their usage of paper — including facial tissue and kitchen roll ― to save money .
" strength ， softness and thickness remain the leading indicators of toilet paper quality , with just a small proportion of consumers preferring more luxurious alternatives , such as those with flower patterns of perfume , said mintel analyst jack duckett .
' ' these extra features are deemed unnecessary by the majority of shoppers , which probably reflects how these types of products are typically more expensive than regular toilet paper , even when on special offer . "
while consumers are spending less on toilet paper , they remain fussy ― in theory at least — when it comes to paper quality .
top of britons ’ toilet paper wish list is softness ( 57 % ) followed by strength ( 45 % ) and thickness ( 36 % ) .
one in 10 buyers rand toilet rolls made from recycled paper among their top considerations , highlighting how overall the environment is much less of a consideration for shoppers than product quality .
in a challenge for manufacturers , 81 % of paper product users said they would consider buying recycled toilet tissue if it were comparable in quality to standard paper .
" one of the reasons i find this topic very interesting is because my mom was a smoker when i was younger ， " says lindson-hawley , who studies tobacco and health at the university of oxford .
by studying about 700 adult smokers , she found out that her mom quit the right way — by stopping abruptly and completely .
in her study , participants were randomly assigned to two groups .
one had to quit abruptly on a given day , going from about a pack a day to zero .
the other cut down gradually over the course of two weeks .
people in both groups used nicotine patches before they quit , in addition to a second form of nicotine replacement , like gum or spray .
they also had talk therapy with a nurse before and after quit day .
six months out , more people who had quit abruptly had stuck with it — more than one-fifth of them , compared to about one-seventh in the other group .
although these numbers appear low , it is much higher than if people try without support .
and the quit rates were particularly convincing given that before the study started , most of the people had said they ’ d rather cut down gradually before quitting .
" if you ’ re training for a marathon , you wouldn ’ t expect to turn up and just be able to run it .
and i think people see that for smoking as well .
they think , " well ， if i gradually reduce , it ’ s like practice ， ’ " says lindson-hawley .
but that wasn ’ t the case .
instead of giving people practice , the gradual reduction likely gave them cravings and withdrawal symptoms before they even reached quit day , which could be why fewer people in that group actually made it to that point .
" regardless of your stated preference , if you ’ re ready to quit , quitting abruptly is more effective , " says dr . gabriela ferreira .
" when you can quote a specific number like a fifth of the patients were able to quit , that ’ s compelling .
it gives them the encouragement , i think , to really go for it ， ’ ’ ferreira says .
people rarely manage to quit the first time they try .
but at least , she says , they can maximize the odds of success .
some of us will seek it out : for others it will feel like an unwelcome intrusion into otherwise stable careers .
in her search to live a life of purpose , leah left her high-paying accounting job , her husband , and her home .
in the process , she built a radically new life and career .
i started having a sense that " this isn ’ t right ’ . "
she then realized that her life no longer matched her vision for it .
" i did what everybody else thought looked successful , she says .
leah easily could have fallen into a trap of feeling content , instead , her energy sparked a period of experimentation and renewal .
first trying physical exercise and dieting .
she lost some weight and discovered an inner strength . "
i felt powerful because i broke through my own limitations " , she recalls .
however , it was another interest that led leah to radically reinvent herself . "
i remember sitting on a bench with my aunt at a yoga studio , " she said , " and having a moment of clarity right then and there .
yoga is saving my life .
i , m not happy and i want to change and i , m done with this . "
that ’ s why leaders continue to manage the present while building toward the big nonlinear changes of the future .
when it ’ s time to make the leap , they take action and decisively drop what ’ s no longer serving their purpose .
" i was working 60 hours a week and running a studio , so i wasn ’ t getting very much sleep , but it was good for me , " she says .
" be yourself " , leah says .
" quit being the person people think you ’ re supposed to be .
find a way to dig deep into your courageous self to be who you are .
whatever that means as far as exploring your emotions , your identity , your profession , find one version of you that you are always and everywhere . "
it was this sense of purpose that would carry leah through the storms of change .
leah reflects on one incident that triggered her fears , when her investors threatened to shut her down : " i was probably up against the most fear i ’ ve ever had , " she says .
i was thinking , " ok , guys , if you want to try to shut me down , shut me down . ’ and i knew it was a negotiation scheme , so i was able to say to myself , " this is not real . ’ " by naming her fears .
shoppers in the uk are spending less money on toilet paper to save money , research has shown.penny - pinching uk consumers choose cheaper products from discounters such as aldi and lidl rather than luxury alternatives.this has wiped 6 % off the value of the soft tissue paper market in the uk .
furthermore , the future of the market looks far from rosy , with sales expected to fall further to £ 1.11 billion in 2016.in the last year alone , despite an increase in the uk population and a subsequent rise in the number of households , sales of toilet paper fell by 2 % , with the average household reducing their toilet roll spending from £ 43 in 2014 to £ 41 in 2015.overall , almost three in five people say they try to limit their usage of paper including facial tissue and kitchen roll — to save money .
" strength , softness and thickness remain the leading indicators of toilet paper quality , with just a small proportion of consumers preferring more luxurious alternatives , such as those with flower patterns or perfume , said mintel analyst jack duckett .
" these extra features are deemed unnecessary by the majority of shoppers , which probably reflects how these types of products are typically more expensive than regular toilet paper , even when on special offer .
" while consumers are spending less on toilet paper , they remain fussy in theory at least when it comes to paper quality .
top of britons , toilet paper wish list is softness ( 57 % ) followed by strength ( 45 % ) and thickness ( 36 % ) . one in 10 buyers rank toilet rolls made from recycled paper among their top considerations , highlighting how overall the environment is much less of a consideration for shoppers than product quality .
" one of the reasons i find this topic very interesting is because my mom was a smoker when i was younger , " says lindson-hawley , who studies tobacco and health at the university of oxford .
people in both groups used nicotinepatches before they quit , in addition to a second form of nicotine replacement , like gum or spray .
they think , " well , if i gradually reduce , it ’ s like practice , ’ " says lindson-hawley .
it gives them the encouragement , i think , to really go for it , " ferreira says .
a handful of people can recall almost every day of their lives in enormous detail-and after years of research , neuroscientists are finally beginning to understand how they do it .
" my memory is like library of video tapes , walk-throughs of every day of my life from waking to sleeping , " he explains .
veiseh can even put a date on when those tapes started recording : 15 december 2000 , when he met his first girlfriend at his best friend ’ s 16th birthday party .
" highly superior autobiographical memory " ( or hsam for short ) , first came to light in the early 2000s , with a young woman named jill price .
it didn ’ t take long for magazines and documentary film-makers to come to understand her " total recall " , and thanks to the subsequent media interest , a few dozen other subjects ( including veiseh ) have since come forward and contacted the team at the university of california , irvine .
and although their memories are vast , they are still likely to suffer from " false memories ' clearly , there is no such thing as a " perfect " memory ~ ~ their extraordinary minds are still using the same flawed tools that the rest of us rely on .
each time this initial memory trace is " replayed " ， it becomes even stronger .
in some ways , you probably go through that process after a big event like your wedding day but the difference is that thanks to their other psychological tendencies , the hsam subjects are doing it day in , day out , for the whole of their lives .
the people with hsam fve interviewed would certainly agree that it can be a mixed blessing .
" imagine being able to remember every painting , on every wall , in every gallery space , between nearly 40 countries , " he says .
donohue , now a history teacher , agrees that it helped during certain parts of her education : " i can definitely remember what i learned on certain days at school .
" you feel the same emotions — it is just as raw , just as fresh … ou can ’ t turn off that stream of memories , no matter how hard you try . "
veiseh agrees : " it is like having these open wounds they are just a part of you , " he says .
bill , for instance , often gets painful " flashbacks " , in which unwanted memories intrude into his consciousness , but overall he has chosen to see it as the best way of avoiding repeating the same mistakes .
there ’ s only one problem with the cliché .
it isn ’ t true .
the bulk of the research shows that there may be a pause , or a shifting of gears in the 40s or 50s , but this shift " can be exciting , rather than terrifying . "
they break routines , because " autopilot is death . "
they choose purpose over happiness — having a clear sense of purpose even reduces the risk of alzheimer ’ s disease .
what could have been considered the beginning of a decent is now a potential turning point the turning point you are most equipped to take full advantage of .
" i ’ ve broken eggs at every stage of the process from the very beginning to the very , very end . "
teams have become the basic building blocks of organisations .
recruitment advertisements routinely call for " team players ' business schools grade their students in part on their performance in group projects .
teams are as old as civilisation , of course : even jesus had 12 co-workers .
but a new report by deloitte , " global human capital trends " ， based on a survey of more than 7,000 executives in over 130 countries , suggests that the fashion for teamwork has reached a new high .
companies are abandoning conventional functional departments and organising employees into cross - disciplinary teams that focus on particular products , problems or customers .
technological innovation places greater value on agility john chambers , chairman of cisco systems inc . , a worldwide leader in electronics products , says that " we compete against market transitions ， not competitors .
in his book , team of teams , general stanley mcchrystal describes how the army ’ s hierarchical structure hindered its operations during the early stages of the iraq war .
his solution was to learn something from the rebels it was fighting : decentralising authority to self-organising teams .
a good rule of thumb is that as soon as generals and hospital administrators jump on a management bandwagon ， it is time to ask questions .
the late richard hackman of harvard university once argued , " i have no question that when you have a team ， the possibility exists that it will generate magic , producing something extraordinary ...
hackman ( who died in 2013 ) noted that teams are hindered by problems of co-ordination and motivation that chip away at the benefits of collaboration .
high-flyers who are forced to work in teams may be undervalued and free-riders empowered .
group-think may be unavoidable .
jeff bezos , amazon ’ s boss , says that " if i see more than two pizzas for lunch , the team is too big " .
they need to immunise teams against group-think : hackman argued that the best ones contain " deviants " who are willing to do something that may be upsetting to others .
a new study of 12,000 workers in 17 countries by steelcase , a furniture-maker which also does consulting , finds that the best way to ensure employees are " engaged " is to give them more control over where and how they do their work-which may mean liberating them from having to do everything in collaboration with others .
team-building skills are in short supply : deloitte reports that only 12 % of the executives they contacted feel they understand the way people work together in networks and only 21 % feel confident in their ability to build cross-functional teams .
loosely managed teams can become hotbeds of distraction employees routinely complain that they can ’ t get their work done because they are forced to spend too much time in meetings or compelled to work in noisy offices .
urbanization — migration away from the suburbs to the central city — will be the biggest real estate trend in 2015 , according to a new report .
as smaller cities copy the model of these " 24 - hour cities " ， more affordable versions of these places will be created .
the report refers to this as the coming of the " 18 - hour city " ， and uses the term to refer to cities like houston , austin , charlotte , and nashville , which are " positioning themselves as highly competitive , in terms of livability , employment offerings , and recreational and cultural amenities . "
after that , survey respondents disagree over whether this generation will follow in their parents ’ footsteps , moving to the suburbs to raise families , or will choose to remain in the urban core .
the survey projects that this population cohort will evolve and segment over time , and warns against painting the generation with too broad a brush .
while excessive optimism can promote bad investment patterns , resulting in a real - estate " bubble " ， the report ’ s writers downplay that potential outcome in that it has not yet occurred .
some respondents to the emerging markets survey call the urbanization trend " oversubscribed " ， and the report concedes that there do exist some edge cities and suburbs with promise .
but these places are few and far between .
the most successful places are those built using urban-design principles — with density , walkability , and good transit .
real-estate investors in 2015 need to pay attention to the two main conclusion of the report : if a property resembles or relies upon sprawl in any way , or doesn ’ t appeal to millennials , think before you invest .
the brain is truly a marvel .
a seemingly endless library , whose shelves house our most precious memories as well as our lifetime ’ s knowledge .
in other words , can the brain be " full " ？
the answer is a resounding no , because , well , brains are more sophisticated than that .
a study published in nature neuroscience earlier this year shows that instead of just crowding in , old information is sometimes pushed out of the brain for new memories to form .
the new card you receive will come with a new personal identification number ( pin ) .
and most of us will be able to identify with the frustration of having old memories interfere with new , relevant memories .
this type of memory ( where you are trying to remember new , but similar information ) is particularly susceptible to interference .
and when we retrieve information , both the desired and associated but irrelevant information is recalled .
some report an inability to think about the present or the future , because of the feeling of constantly living in the past , caught in their memories .
and this is what we all might experience if our brains didn ’ t have a mechanism for superseding information that ’ s no longer relevant and did indeed fill up .
at the other end of the spectrum is a phenomenon called " accelerated long-term forgetting " ， which has been observed in epilepsy and stroke patients .
as the name suggests , these people forget newly learnt information at a much faster rate , sometimes within a few hours , compared to what ’ s considered normal .
it ’ s believed this represents a failure to " consolidate " or transfer new memories into long-term memory .
but the processes and impact of this form of forgetting are still largely unexplored .
in a sense ， forgetting is our brain ’ s way of sorting memories , so the most relevant memories are ready for retrieval .
do in-class exams make students study harder ?
research suggests they may study more broadly for the unexpected rather than search for answers .
i have always been a poor test-taker .
so it may seem rather strange that i have returned to college to finish the degree i left undone some four decades ago . i am making my way through columbia university , surrounded by students who quickly supply the verbal answer while i am still processing the question .
since there is no way for me to avoid exams , i am currently questioning what kind are the most taxing and ultimately beneficial .
i have already sweated through numerous in-class midterms and finals , and now i have a professor who issues take-home ones .
i was excited when i learned this , figuring i had a full week to do the research , read the texts , and write it all up .
in fact , i was still rewriting my midterm the morning it was due .
to say i had lost the thread is putting it mildly .
as i was suffering through my week of anxiety , overthinking the material and guessing my grasp of it , i did some of my own polling among students and professors , david eisenbach , who teachers a popular class on u . s . presidents at columbia , prefers the in-class variety .
he believes students ultimately learn more and encourages them to form study groups .
" that way they socialize over history outside the class , which wouldn ’ t happen without the pressure of an in-class exam , " he explained .
" furthermore , in-class exams force students to learn how to perform under pressure , an essential work skill . "
he also says there is less chance of cheating with the in-class variety .
in 2012 , 125 students at harvard were caught up in a scandal when it was discovered they had cheated on a take-home exam for a class entitled " introduction to congress . "
some colleges have what they call an " honor code , " though if you are smart enough to get into these schools , you are either smart enough to get around any codes or hopefully , too ethical to consider doing so .
as i sat blocked and clueless for two solid days , i momentarily wondered if i couldn ’ t just call an expert on the subject matter which i was tackling , or someone who took the class previously , to get me going .
following the harvard scandal , mary miller , the former dean of students at yale , made an impassioned appeal to her school ’ s professors to refrain from take-home exams .
" students risk health and well being , as well as performance in other end-of-term work , when faculty offers take-home exams without clear , time-limited boundaries , " she told me .
" research now shows that regular quizzes , short essays , and other assignments over the course of a term better enhance learning and retention . "
most college professors agree the king of exam they choose largely depends on the subject .
a quantitative-based one , for example , is unlikely to be sent home , where one could ask their older brothers and sisters to help .
vocational-type classes , such as computer science or journalism , on the other hand , are often more research-oriented and lend themselves to take-home testing .
chris koch , who teaches " history of broadcast journalism " at montgomery community college in rockville , maryland , points out that reporting is about investigation rather than the memorization of minute details .
" in my field , it ’ s not what you know — it ’ s what you how to find out , " says koch .
" there is way too much information , and more coming all the time , for anyone to remember .
i want my students to search out the answers to questions by using all the resources available to them . "
students ’ test-form preferences vary , too , often depending on the subject and course difficulty .
" i prefer take-home essays because it is then really about the writing , so you have time to edit and do more research , " says elizabeth dresser , a junior at barnard .
then there is the stress factor .
francesca haass , a senior at middlebury , says , " i find the in-class ones are more stressful in the short term , but there is immediate relief as you swallow information like mad , and then you get to forget it all .
take-homes require thoughtful engagement which can lead to longer term stress as there is never a moment when the time is up . "
meanwhile , olivia rubin , a sophomore at emory , says she hardly even considers take-home true exams .
" if you understand and material and have the ability to articulateyour thoughts , they should be a breeze . "
how students ultimately handle tests may depend on their personal test-taking abilities .
there are people who always wait until the last minute , and make it much harder than is needs to be .
and then there are those who , not knowing what questions are coming at them , and having no resources to refer to , can freeze .
and then there are we rare folk is who fit both those descriptions .
yes , my advanced age must factor into the equation , in part because of my inability to access the information as quickly .
as another returning student at columbia , kate marber , told me , " we are learning not only all this information , but essentially how to learn again .
our fellow students have just come out of high school .
a lot has changed since we were last in school . "
if nothing else , the situation has given my college son and me something to share .
when i asked his opinion on this matter , he responded , " i like in-class exams because the time is already reserved , as opposed to using my free time at home to work on a test , " he responded .
it seems to me that a compromise would be receiving the exam questions a day or two in advance , and then doing the actual test in class with the ticking clock overhead .
better yet , how about what one hunter college professor reportedly did recently for her final exam : she encouraged the class not to stress or even study , promising that , " it is going to be a piece of cake . "
when the students came in , sharpened pencils in hand , there was not a blue book in sight .
rather , they saw a large chocolate cake and they each were given a slice .
that people often experience trouble sleeping in a different bed in unfamiliar surrounding is a phenomenon known as the " first-night " effext .
if a person stays in the same room the following night they tend to sleep more soundly .
yuka sasaki and her colleagues at brown university set out to investigate the origins of this effect .
dr . sasaki knew the first-night effect probably has something to do with how humans evolved .
the puzzle was that benefit would be gained from it when performance might be affected the following day .
she also knew from previous work conducted on birds and dolphins that these animals put half of their brains to sleep at a time so that they can rest while remaining alert enough to avoid predators .
this led her to wonder if people might be doing the same thing .
to take a closer look , her team studied 35 healthy people as they slept in the unfamiliar environment of the university ’ s department of psychological sciences .
the participants each slept in the department for two nights and were carefully monitored with techniques that looked at the activity pf their brains .
dr . sasaki found , as expected , the participants slept less well on their first night than they did on their second , taking more than twice as long to fall asleep and sleeping less overall .
during deep sleep , the participants ’ brains behaved in a similar manner seen in birds and dolphins .
on the first night only , the left hemispheres of their brains did not sleep nearly as deeply as their right hemispheres did .
curious id the left hemispheres were indeed remaining awake to process information detected in the surrounding environment , dr . sasaki re-ran the experiment while presenting the sleeping participants with a mix of regularly timed beeps of the same tone and irregular beeps of a different tone during the night .
she worked out that , if the left hemisphere was staying alert to keep guard in a strange environment , then it would react to the irregular beeps by stirring people from sleep and would ignore the regularly timed ones .
this is precisely what she found .
it ’ s time to reevaluate how women handle conflict at work .
being overworked or over-committed at home and on the job will not get you where you want to be in life .
it will only slow you down and hinder your career goals .
did you know women are more likely than men to feel exhausted ?
nearly twice as many women than men ages 18-44 reported feeling " very tired " or " exhausted " , according to a recent study .
this may not be surprising given that this is the age range when women have children .
it ’ s also the age range when many women are trying to balance careers and home .
one reason women may feel exhausted is that they have a hard time saying " no . "
women want to be able to do it all — volunteer for school parties or cook delicious meals — and so their answer to any request is often " yes , i can . "
women struggle to say " no " in the workplace for similar reasons , including the desire to be liked by their colleagues .
unfortunately , this inability to say " no " may be hurting women ’ s health as well as their career .
at the workplace , men use conflict as a way to position themselves , while women often avoid conflict or strive to be the peacemaker , because they don ’ t want to be viewed as aggressive or disruptive at work .
for example , there ’ s a problem that needs to be addressed immediately , resulting in a dispute over who should be the one to fix it .
men are more likely to face that dispute from the perspective of what benefits them most , whereas women may approach the same dispute from the perspective of what ’ s the easiest and quickest way to resolve the problem — even if that means doing the boring work themselves .
this difference in handling conflict could be the deciding factor on who gets promoted to a leadership position and who does not .
leaders have to be able to delegate and manage resources wisely — including staff expertise .
shouldering more of the workload may not earn you that promotion .
instead , it may highlight you inability to delegate effectively .
why aren ’ t you curious about what happened ?
a ) " you suspended ray rice after our video , " a reporter from tmz challenged national football league commissioner roger goodell the other day .
" why didn ’ t you have the curiosity to go to the casino yourself ? "
the implication of the question is that a more curious commissioner would have found a way to get the tape .
b ) the accusation of incuriosity is one that we hear often , carrying the suggestion that there is something wrong with not wanting to search out the truth .
" i have been bothered for a long time about the curious lack of curiosity , " said a democratic member of the new jersey legislature back in july , referring to an insufficiently inquiring attitude on the part of an assistant to new jersey governor chris christie who chose not to ask hard questions about the george washington bridge traffic scandal .
" isn ’ t the mainstream media the least bit curious about what happened ? "
wrote conservative writer jennifer rubin earlier this year .
referring to the attack on americans in benghazi , libya .
c ) the implication , in each case , is that curiosity is a good thing , and a lack of curiosity is a problem .
are such accusations simply efforts to score political points for one ’ s party ?
or is there something of particular value about curiosity in and of itself ?
d ) the journalist ian leslie , in his new and enjoyable book curious : the desire to know and why your future depends on it , insists that the answer to that last question is " yes ’ .
leslie argues that curiosity is a much-overlooked human virtue , crucial to our success , and that we are losing it .
e ) we are suffering , he writes , from a " serendipity deficit . "
the word " serendipity " was coined by horace walpole in an 1854 letter , from a tale of three princes who " were always making discoveries , by accident , of things they were not in search of . "
leslie worries that the rise of the internet , among other social and technological changes , has reduced our appetite for aimless adventures .
no longer have we the inclination to let ourselves wander through fields of knowledges , ready to be surprised .
instead , we seek only the information we want .
f ) why is this a problem ?
because without curiosity we will lose the spirit of innovation and entrepreneurship .
we will see unimaginative governments and dying corporations make disastrous decisions .
we will lose a vital part of what has made humanity as a whole so successful as a species .
g ) leslie presents considerable evidence for the proposition that the society as a whole is growing less curious .
in the u . s . and europe , for example , the rise of the internet has led to a declining consumption of news from outside the reader ’ s borders .
but not everything is to be blamed on technology .
the decline in interest in literary fiction is also one of the causes identified by leslie .
reading literary fiction , he says , makes us more curious .
h ) moreover , in order to be curious , " you have to be aware of a gap in your knowledge in the first place . "
although leslie perhaps paints a bit broadly in contending that most of us are unaware of how much we don ’ t know , he ’ s surely right to point out that the problem is growing : " google can give us the powerful illusion that a questions have definite answers . "
i ) indeed , google , for which leslie express admiration , is also his frequent whipping boy .
he quotes google co-founder larry page to the effect that the " perfect search engine " will " understand exactly what i mean and give me back exactly what i want . "
elsewhere in the book , leslie writes : " google aims to save you from the thirst of curiosity altogether . "
j ) somewhat nostalgically , he quotes john maynard keynes ’ s justly famous words of praise to the bookstore : " one should enter it vaguely , almost in a dream and allow what is there freely to attract and influence the eye .
to walk the rounds of the bookshops , dipping in as curiosity dictates , should be an afternoon ’ s entertainment . "
if only !
k ) citing the work of psychologists and cognitive scientists , leslie criticizes the received wisdom that academic success is the result of a combination of intellectual talent and hard work .
curiosity , he argues , is the third key factor — and a difficult one to preserve .
if not cultivated , it will not survive : " childhood curiosity is a collaboration between child and adult .
the surest way to kill it is to leave it alone . "
l ) school education , he warns , is often conducted in a way that makes children incurious .
children of educated an upper-middle-class parents turn out to be far more curious , even at early ages , than children of working class and lower class families .
that lack of curiosity produces a relative lack of knowledge , and the lack of knowledge is difficult if not impossible to compensate for later on .
m ) although leslie ’ s book isn ’ t about politics , he doesn ’ t entirely shy away from the problem .
political leaders , like leader of other organizations , should be curious .
they should ask questions at crucial moments .
there are serious consequences , he warns , in not wanting to know .
n ) he present as an example the failure of the george w . bush administration to prepare properly for the after-effects of the invasion of iraq .
according to leslie , those who ridiculed former defense secretary donald rumsfeld for his 2002 remark that we have to be wary of the " unknown unknowns " were mistaken .
rumsfeld ’ s idea , leslie writes , " wasn't absurd — it was smart . "
he adds , " the tragedy is that he didn't follow his own advice . "
o ) all of which brings us back to goodell and the christie case and benghazi .
each critic in those examples is charging , in a different way , that someone in authority is intentionally being incurious .
i leave it to the reader's political preference to decide which , if any , charges should stick .
but let ’ s be careful about demanding curiosity about the other side ’ s weaknesses and remaining determinedly incurious about our own .
we should be delighted to pursue knowledge for its own sake — even when what we find out is something we didn't particularly want to know .
aging happens to all of us , and is generally thought of as a natural part of life .
it would seem silly to call such a thing a " disease . "
on the other hand , scientists are increasingly learning that aging and biological age are two different things , and that the former is a key risk factor for conditions such as heart disease , cancer and many more .
in that light , aging itself might be seen as something treatable , the way you would treat high blood pressure or a vitamin deficiency .
biophysicist alex zhavoronkov believes that aging should be considered a disease .
he said that describing aging as a disease creates incentives to develop treatments .
" it unties the hands of the pharmaceutical industry so that they can begin treating the disease and not just the side effects , " he said .
" right now , people think of aging as natural and something you can ’ t control , " he said .
" in academic circles , people take aging research as just an interest area where they can try to develop interventions .
the medical community also takes aging for granted , and can do nothing about it except keep people within a certain health range . "
but if aging were recognized as a disease , he said , " it would attract funding and change the way we do health care .
what matters is understand that aging is curable . "
" it was always known that the body accumulates damage , " he added .
" the only way to cure aging is to find ways to repair that damage .
i think of it as preventive medicine for age-related conditions . "
leonard hayflick , a professor at the university of california , san francisco , said the idea that aging can be cured implies the human lifespan can be increased , which some researchers suggest is possible .
hayflick is not among them .
" there ’ re many people who recover from cancer , stroke , or heart disease .
but they continue to age , because aging is separate from their disease , " hayflick said .
" even if those causes of death were eliminated , life expectancy would still not go much beyond 92 years . "
female applicants to postdoctoral positions in geosciences were nearly half as likely to receive excellent letters of recommendation , compared with their male counterparts .
christopher intagliata reports .
as in many other fields , gender bias is widespread in the sciences .
men score higher starting salaries , have more mentoring , and have better odds of being hired .
studies show they ’ re also perceived as more competent than women in stem ( science , technology , engineering , and mathematics ) fields .
and new research reveals that men are more likely to receive excellent letters of recommendation , too .
" say , you know , this is the best student i ’ ve ever had , " says kuheli dutt , a social scientist and diversity officer at columbia university ’ s lamont campus .
" compare those excellent letters with a merely good letter : " the candidate was productive , or intelligent , or a solid scientist or something that ’ s clearly solid praise , ’ but nothing that singles out the candidate as exceptional or one of a kind . "
dutt and her colleagues studied more than 1,200 letters of recommendation for postdoctoral positions in geoscience .
they were all edited for gender and other identifying information , so dutt and her team could assign them a score without knowing the gender of the student .
they found that female applicants were only half as likely to get outstanding letters , compared with their male counterparts .
that includes letters of recommendation from all over the world , and written by , yes , men and women .
the findings are in the journal nature geoscience .
dutt says they were not able to evaluate the actual scientific qualifications of the applicants using the data in the files .
but she says the results still suggest women in geoscience are at a potential disadvantage from the very beginning of their careers starting with those less than out-standing letters of recommendation .
" we're not trying to assign blame or criticize anyone or call anyone consciously sexist .
rather , the point is to use the results of this study to open up meaningful dialogues on implicit gender bias , be it at a departmental level or an institutional level or even a discipline level . "
which may lead to some recommendations for the letter writers themselves .
as tourists crowd out locals , venice faces ' endangered ' list
on a recent fall morning , a large crowd blocked the steps at one of venice's main tourist sites , the rialto bridge .
the rialto bridge is one of the four bridges spanning the grand canal .
it is the oldest bridge across the canal , and was the dividing line between the districts of san marco and san polo .
but on this day , there was a twist : it was filled with venetians , not tourists .
" people are cheering and holding their carts in the air , " says giovanni giorgio , who helped organize the march with a grass-roots organization called generazione ' 90 .
the carts he refers to are small shopping carts — the symbol of a true venetian .
" it started as a joke , " he says with a laugh .
" the idea was to put blades on the wheels !
you know ?
like ben hur .
precisely like that , you just go around and run people down . "
venice is one of the hottest tourist destinations in the world .
but that's a problem .
up to 90,000 tourists crowd its streets and canals every day — far outnumbering the 55,000 permanent residents .
the tourist increase is one key reason the city's population is down from 175,000 in the 1950s .
the outnumbered venetians have been steadily fleeing .
and those who stick around are tired of living in a place where they can't even get to the market without swimming through a sea of picture-snapping tourists .
imagine , navigating through 50,000 people while on the way to school or to work .
laura chigi , a grandmother at the march , says the local and national governments have failed to do anything about the crowds for decades , because they're only interested in tourism — the primary industry in venice , worth more than $ 3 billion in 2015 .
" venice is a cash cow , " she says , " and everyone wants a piece . "
just beyond st . mark's square , a cruise ship passes , one of hundreds every year that appear over their medieval surroundings .
their massive wake creates waves at the bottom of the sea , weakening the foundations of the centuries-old buildings themselves .
" every time i see a cruise ship , i feel sad , " chigi says .
" you see the mud it drags ; the destruction it leaves in its wake ?
that hurts the ancient wooden poles holding up the city underwater .
one day we'll see venice break down . "
for a time , unesco , the cultural wing of the united nations , seemed to agree .
two years ago , it put italy on notice , saying the government was not protecting venice .
unesco considers the entire city a world heritage site , a great honor that means venice , at the cultural level , belongs to all of the world's people .
in 2014 , unesco gave italy two years to manage venice's flourishing tourism or the city would be placed on another list — world heritage in danger , joining such sites as aleppo and palmyra , destroyed by the war in syria .
venice's deadline passed with barely a murmur this summer , just as unesco was meeting in istanbul .
only one representative , jad tabet from lebanon , tried to raise the issue .
" for several years , the situation of heritage in venice has been worsening , and it has now reached a dramatic situation , " tabet told unesco .
" we have to act quickly — there is not a moment to waste . "
but unesco didn't even hold a vote .
" it's been postponed until 2017 , " says anna somers , the founder and ceo of the art newspaper and the former head of venice in peril , a group devoted to restoring venetian art .
she says the main reason the u . n . cultural organization didn't vote to declare venice a world heritage site in danger is because unesco has become " intensely politicized .
there would have been some back-room negotiations . "
italy boasts more unesco world heritage sites than any other country in the world , granting it considerable power and influence within the organization .
the former head of the unesco world heritage centre , which oversees heritage sites , is francesco bandarin , a venetian who now serves as unesco's assistant director-general for culture .
earlier this year , italy signed an accord with unesco to establish a task force of police art detectives and archaeologists to protect cultural heritage from natural disasters and terror groups , such as isis .
the accord underlined italy's global reputation as a good steward of art and culture .
but adding venice to the unesco endangered list — which is dominated by sites in developing and conflict-ridden countries — would be an international embarrassment , and could even hurt italy's profitable tourism industry .
the italian culture ministry says it is unaware of any government efforts to pressure unesco .
as for the organization itself , it declined a request for an interview .
the city's current mayor , luigi brugnaro , has ridiculed unesco and told it to mind its own business , while continuing to support the cruise ship industry , which employs 5,000 venice residents .
as for venetians , they're beyond frustrated and hoping for a solution soon .
" it's a nightmare for me .
some situations are really difficult with tourists around , " says giorgio as he navigates around a swelling crowd at the rialto bridge .
" there are just so many of them .
they never know where they are going , and do not walk in an orderly manner .
navigating the streets can be exhausting . "
then it hits him : this crowd isn't made up of tourists .
they're venetians .
giorgio says he's never experienced the rialto bridge this way in all his 22 years .
" for once , we are the ones who are blocking the traffic , " he says delightedly .
" it feels unreal .
it feels like we're some form of endangered species .
it's just nice .
the feeling is just pure . "
but , he worries , if tourism isn't managed and his fellow locals continue to move to the mainland , his generation might be the last who can call themselves native venetians .
living in an urban area with green spaces has a long-lasting positive impact on people's mental well-being , a study has suggested .
uk researchers found moving to a green space had a sustained positive effect , unlike pay rises or promotions , which only provided a short-term boost .
co-author mathew white , from the university of exeter , uk , explained that the study showed people living in greener urban areas were displaying fewer signs of depression or anxiety .
" there could be a number of reasons , " he said , " for example , people do many things to make themselves happier : they strive for promotion or pay rises , or they get married .
but the trouble with those things is that within six months to a year , people are back to their original baseline levels of well-being .
so , these things are not sustainable ; they don't make us happy in the long term .
we found that for some lottery winners who had won more than ￡ 500,000 the positive effect was definitely there , but after six months to a year , they were back to the baseline . "
dr . white said his team wanted to see whether living in greener urban areas had a lasting positive effect on people's sense of well-being or whether the effect also disappeared after a period of time .
to do this , the team used data from the british household panel survey compiled by the university of essex .
explaining what the data revealed , he said : " what you see is that even after three years , mental health is still better , which is unlike many other things that we think will make us happy . "
he observed that people living in green spaces were less stressed , and less stressed people made more sensible decisions and communicated better .
with a growing body of evidence establishing a link between urban green spaces and a positive impact on human well-being , dr . white said , " there's growing interest among public policy officials , but the trouble is who funds it .
what we really need at a policy level is to decide where the money will come from to help support good quality local green spaces . "
you probably know about the titanic , but it was actually just one of three state-of-the-art ocean ships back in the day .
the olympic class ships were built by the harland & wolff ship makers in northern ireland for the white star line company .
the olympic class included the olympic , the britannic and the titanic .
what you may not know is that the titanic wasn't even the flagship of this class .
all in all , the olympic class ships were marvels of sea engineering , but they seemed cursed to suffer disastrous fates .
the olympic launched first in 1910 , followed by the titanic in 1911 , and lastly the britannic in 1914 .
the ships had nine decks , and white star line decided to focus on making them the most luxurious ships on the water .
stretching 269.13 meters , the olympic class ships were wonders of naval technology , and everyone thought that they would continue to be so for quite some time .
however , all suffered 。
terrible accidents on the open seas .
the olympic got wrecked before the titanic did , but it was the only one to survive and maintain a successful career of 24 years .
the titanic was the first to sink after famously hitting a huge iceberg in 1912 .
following this disaster , the britannic hit a naval mine in 1916 and subsequently sank as well .
each ship was coal-powered by several boilers constantly kept running by exhausted crews below deck .
most recognizable of the ship designs are the ship's smoke stacks , but the fourth stack was actually just artistic in nature and served no functional purpose .
while two of these ships sank , they were all designed with double hulls believed to make them " unsinkable " , perhaps a mistaken idea that led to the titanic's and the britannic's tragic end .
the olympic suffered two crashes with other ships and went on to serve as a hospital ship and troop transport in world war i .
eventually , she was taken out of service in 1935 , ending the era of the luxurious olympic class ocean liners .
new jersey school district eases pressure on students — baring an ethnic divide
this fall , david aderhold , the chief of a high-achieving school district near princeton , new jersey , sent parents an alarming 16 - page letter .
the school district , he said , was facing a crisis .
its students were overburdened and stressed out , having to cope with too much work and too many demands .
in the previous school year , 120 middle and high school students were recommended for mental health assessments and 40 were hospitalized .
and on a survey administered by the district , students wrote things like , " i hate going to school , " and " coming out of 12 years in this district , i have learned one thing : that a grade , a percentage or even a point is to be valued over anything else . "
with his letter , aderhold inserted west windsor-plainsboro regional school district into a national discussion about the intense focus on achievement at elite schools , and whether it has gone too far .
at follow-up meetings , he urged parents to join him in advocating a " whole child " approach to schooling that respects " social-emotional development " and " deep and meaningful learning " over academics alone .
the alternative , he suggested , was to face the prospect of becoming another palo alto , california , where outsize stress on teenage students is believed to have contributed to a number of suicides in the last six years .
but instead of bringing families together , aderhold's letter revealed a divide in the district , which has 9,700 students , and one that broke down roughly along racial lines .
on one side are white parents like catherine foley , a former president of the parent-teacher-student association at her daughter's middle school , who has come to see the district's increasingly pressured atmosphere as opposed to learning .
" my son was in fourth grade and told me , ' i'm not going to amount to anything because i have nothing to put on my resume , ' " she said .
on the other side are parents like mike jia , one of the thousands of asian-american professionals who have moved to the district in the past decade , who said aderhold's reforms would amount to a " dumbing down " of his children's education .
" what is happening here reflects a national anti-intellectual trend that will not prepare our children for the future , " jia said .
about 10 minutes from princeton and an hour and a half from new york city , west windsor and plainsboro have become popular bedroom communities for technology entrepreneurs , researchers and engineers , drawn in large part by the public schools .
from the last three graduating classes , 16 seniors were admitted to mit .
it produces science olympiad winners , classically trained musicians and students with perfect sat scores .
the district has become increasingly popular with immigrant families from china , india and korea .
this year , 65 percent of its students are asian-american , compared with 44 percent in 2007 .
many of them are the first in their families born in the united states .
they have had a growing influence on the district .
asian-american parents are enthusiastic supporters of the competitive instrumental music program.they have been huge supporters of the district's advanced mathematics program , which once began in the fourth grade but will now start in the sixth .
the change to the program , in which 90 percent of the participating students are
asian-american , is one of aderhold's reforms .
asian-american students have been eager participants in a state program that permits them to take summer classes off campus for high school credit , allowing them to maximize the number of honors and advanced placement classes they can take , another practice that aderhold is limiting this school year .
with many asian-american children attending supplementary instructional programs , there is a perception among some white families that the elementary school curriculum is being sped up to accommodate them .
both asian-american and white families say the tension between the two groups has grown steadily over the past few years , as the number of asian families has risen .
but the division has become more obvious in recent months as aderhold has made changes , including no-homework nights , an end to high school midterms and finals , and an initiative that made it easier to participate in the music program .
jennifer lee , professor of sociology at the university of california , irvine , and an author of the asian american achievement paradox , says misunderstanding between first-generation.asian - american parents and those who have been in this country longer are common .
what white middle-class parents do not always understand , she said , is how much pressure recent immigrants feel to boost their children into the middle class .
" they don't have the same chances to get their children internships or jobs at law firms , " lee said .
" so what they believe is that their children must excel and beat their white peers in academic settings so they have the same chances to excel later . "
the issue of the stresses felt by students in elite school districts has gained attention in recent years as schools in places like newton , massachusetts , and palo alto have reported a number of suicides .
west windsor-plainsboro has not had a teenage suicide in recent years , but aderhold , who has worked in the district for seven years and been chief for the last three years , said he had seen troubling signs .
in a recent art assignments , a middle school student depicted an overburdened child who was being scolded for earning an a , rather than an a + , on a math exam .
in the image , the mother scolds the student with the words , " shame on you ! "
further , he said , the
new jersey education department has flagged at least two pieces of writing on state english language assessments in which students expressed suicidal thoughts .
the survey commissioned by the district found that 68 percent of high school honor and advanced placement students reported feeling stressed about school " always or most of the time . "
" we need to bring back some balance , " aderhold said .
" you don't want to wait until it's too late to do something . "
not all public opinion has fallen along racial lines .
karen sue , the chinese-american mother of a fifth-grader and an eighth-grader , believes the competition within the district has gotten out of control .
sue , who was born in the united states to immigrant parents , wants her peers to dial it back .
" it's become an arms race , an educational arms race , " she said .
" we all want our kids to achieve and be successful .
the question is , at what cost ? "
for thousands of years , people have known that the best way to understand a concept is to explain it to someone else .
" while we teach , we learn , " said roman philosopher seneca .
now scientists are bringing this ancient wisdom up-to-date .
they're documenting why teaching is such a fruitful way to learn , and designing innovative ways for young people to engage in instruction .
researchers have found that students who sign up to tutor others work harder to understand the material , recall it more accurately and apply it more effectively .
student teachers score higher on tests than pupils who're learning only for their own sake .
but how can children , still learning themselves , teach others ?
one answer : they can tutor younger kids .
some studies have found that first-born children are more intelligent than their later-born siblings .
this suggests their higher iqs result from the time they spend teaching their siblings .
now educators are experimenting with ways to apply this model to academic subjects .
they engage college
undergraduates to teach computer science to high school students , who in turn instruct middle school students on the topic .
but the most cutting-edge tool under development is the " teachable agent " — a computerized character who learns , tries , makes mistakes and asks questions just like a real-world pupil .
computer scientists have created an animated figure called betty's brain , who has been
" taught " about environmental science by hundreds of middle school students .
student teachers are motivated to help betty master certain materials .
while preparing to teach , they organize their knowledge and improve their own understanding .
and as they explain the information to it , they identify problems in their own thinking .
feedback from the teachable agents further enhances the tutors ' learning .
the agents ' questions compel student tutors to think and explain the materials in different ways , and watching the agent solve problems allows them to see their knowledge put into action .
above all , it's the emotions one experiences in teaching that facilitate learning .
student tutors feel upset when their teachable agents fail , but happy when these virtual pupils succeed as they derive pride and satisfaction from someone else's accomplishment .
a new batch of young women — members of the so-called millennial generation — has been entering the workforce for the past decade .
at the starting line of their careers , they are better educated than their mothers and grandmothers had been — or than their young male counterparts are now .
but when they look ahead , they see roadblocks to their success .
they believe that women are paid less than men for doing the same job .
they think it's easier for men to get top executive jobs than it is for them .
and they assume that if and when they have children , it will be even harder for them to advance in their careers .
while the public sees greater workplace equality between men and women now than it did 20-30 years ago , most believe more change is needed .
among millennial women , 75 % say this country needs to continue making changes to achieve gender equality in the workplace , compared with 57 % of millennial men .
even so , relatively few young women ( 15 % ) say they have been discriminated against at work because of their gender .
as millennial women come of age they share many of the same views and values about work as their male counterparts .
they want jobs that provide security and flexibility , and they place relatively little importance on high pay .
at the same time , however , young working women are less likely than men to aim at top management jobs : 34 % say they're not interested in becoming a boss or top manager ; only 24 % of young men say the same .
the gender gap on this question is even wider among working adults in their 30s and 40s , when many women face the trade-offs that go with work and motherhood .
these findings are based on a new pew research center survey of 2,002 adults , including 810 millennials ( ages 18-32 ) , conducted oct . 7-27 , 2013 .
the survey finds that , in spite of the dramatic gains women have made in educational attainment and labor force participation in recent decades , young women view this as a man's world — just as middle-aged and older women do .
losing your ability to think and remember is pretty scary .
we know the risk of dementia increases with age .
but if you have memory slips , you probably needn't worry .
there are pretty clear differences between signs of dementia and age-related memory loss .
after age 50 , it's quite common to have trouble remembering the names of people , places and things quickly , says dr . kirk daffner of brigham and women's hospital in boston .
the brain ages just like the rest of the body .
certain parts shrink , especially areas in the brain that are important to learning , memory and planning .
changes in brain cells can affect communication between different regions of the brain .
and blood flow can be reduced as blood vessels narrow .
forgetting the name of an actor in a favorite movie , for example , is nothing to worry about .
but if you forget the plot of the movie or don't remember even seeing it , that's far more concerning , daffner says .
when you forget entire experiences , he says , that's " a red flag that something more serious may be involved . "
forgetting how to operate a familiar object like a microwave oven , or forgetting how to drive to the house of a friend you've visited many times before can also be signs of something going wrong .
but even then , daffner says , people shouldn't panic .
there are many things that can cause confusion and memory loss , including health problems like temporary stoppage of breathing during sleep , high blood pressure , or depression , as well as medications like antidepressants .
you don't have to figure this out on your own .
daffner suggests going to your doctor to check on medications , health problems and other issues that could be affecting memory .
and the best defense against memory loss is to try to prevent it by building up your brain's cognitive reserve , daffner says .
" read books , go to movies , take on new hobbies or activities that force one to think in novel ways , " he says .
in other words , keep your brain busy and working .
and also get physically active , because exercise is a known brain booster .
some college students are angry that they have to pay to do their homework
digital learning systems now charge students for access codes needed to complete coursework , take quizzes , and turn in homework .
as universities go digital , students are complaining of a new hit to their finances that's replacing — and sometimes joining — expensive textbooks : pricey online access codes that are required to complete coursework and submit assignments .
the codes — which typically range in price from $ 80 to $ 155 per course — give students online access to systems developed by education companies like mcgraw hill and pearson .
these companies , which long reaped big profits as textbook publishers , have boasted that their new online offerings , when pushed to students through universities they partner with , represent the future of the industry .
but critics say the digital access codes represent the same profit-seeking ethos of the textbook business , and are even harder for students to opt out of .
while they could once buy second-hand textbooks , or share copies with friends , the digital systems are essentially impossible to avoid .
" when we talk about the access code we see it as the new face of the textbook monopoly , a new way to lock students around this system , " said ethan senack , the higher education advocate for the u . s . public interest research group , to buzzfeed news .
" rather than $ 250 ( for a print textbook ) you're paying $ 120 , " said senack .
" but because it's all digital it eliminates the used book market and eliminates any sharing and because homework and tests are through an access code , it eliminates any ability to opt out . "
sarina harpet , a 19 - year-old student at virginia tech , was faced with a tough dilemma when she first started college in 2015 — pay rent or pay to turn in her chemistry homework .
she told buzzfeed news that her freshman chemistry class required her to use connect , a system provided by mcgraw hill where students can submit homework , take exams and track their grades .
but the code to access the program cost $ 120 — a big sum for harper , who had already put down $ 450 for textbooks , and had rent day approaching .
she decided to wait for her next work-study paycheck , which was typically $ 150 - $ 200 , to pay for the code .
she knew that her chemistry grade may take a dive as a result .
" it's a balancing act , " she said .
" can i really afford these access codes now ? "
she didn't hand in her first two assignments for chemistry , which started her out in the class with a failing grade .
the access codes may be another financial headache for students , but for textbook businesses , they're the future .
mcgraw hill , which controls 21 % of the higher education market , reported in march that its digital content sales exceeded print sales for the first time in 2015 .
the company said that 45 % of its $ 140 million revenue in 2015 " was derived from digital products . "
a pearson spokesperson told buzzfeed news that " digital materials are less expensive and a good investment " that offer new features , like audio texts , personalized knowledge checks and expert videos .
its digital course materials save students up to 60 % compared to traditional printed textbooks , the company added .
mcgraw hill didn't respond to a request for comment , but its ceo david levin told the financial times in august that " in higher education , the era of the printed textbook is now over . "
the textbook industry insists the online systems represent a better deal for students .
" these digital products aren't just mechanisms for students to submit homework , they offer all kinds of features , " david anderson , the executive director of higher education with the association of american publishers , told buzzfeed news .
" it helps students understand in a way that you can't do with print homework assignments . "
david hunt , an associate professor in sociology at augusta university , which has rolled out digital textbooks across its math and psychology departments , told buzzfeed news that he understands the utility of using systems that require access codes .
but he doesn't require his students to buy access to a learning program that controls the class assignments .
" i try to make things as inexpensive as possible , " said hunt , who uses free digital textbooks for his classes but designs his own curriculum .
" the online systems may make my life a lot easier but i feel like i'm giving up control .
the discussions are the things where my expertise can benefit the students most . "
a 20 - year-old junior at georgia southern university told buzzfeed news that she normally spends $ 500 - $ 600 on access codes for class .
in one case , the professor didn't require students to buy a textbook , just an access code to turn in homework .
this year she said she spent $ 900 on access codes to books and programs .
" that's two months of rent , " she said .
" you can't sell any of it back .
with a traditional textbook you can sell it for $ 30 - $ 50 and that helps to pay for your new semester's books .
with an access code , you're out of that money . "
benjamin wolverton , a 19 - year-old student at the university of south carolina , told buzzfeed news that " it's ridiculous that after paying tens of thousands in tuition we have to pay for all these access codes to do our homework . "
many of the access codes he's purchased have been required simply to complete homework or quizzes .
" often it's only 10 % of your grade in class . "
" you're paying so much money for something that hardly affects your grade — but if you didn't have it , it would affect your grades enough .
it would be bad to start out at a b or c . " wolverton said he spent $ 500 on access codes for digital books and programs this semester .
harper , a poultry science major , is taking chemistry again this year and had to buy a new access code to hand in her homework .
she rented her economics and statistics textbooks for about $ 20 each .
but her access codes for homework , which can't be rented or bought second-hand , were her most expensive purchases : $ 120 and $ 85 .
she still remembers the sting of her first experience skipping an assignment due to the high prices .
" we don't really have a missed assignment policy , " she said .
" if you miss it , you just miss it .
i just got zeros on a couple of first assignments .
i managed to pull everything back up .
but as a scared freshman looking at their grades , it's not fun . "
a letter written by charles darwin in 1875 has been returned to the smithsonian institution archives by the fbi after being stolen twice .
" we realized in the mid - 1970s that it was missing , " says effie kapsalis , head of the smithsonian insitution archives .
" it was noted as missing and likely taken by an intern , from what the fbi is telling us .
word got out that it was missing when someone asked to see the letter for research purposes , " and the intern put the letter back .
" the intern likely took the letter again once nobody was watching it . "
decades passed .
finally , the fbi received a tip that the stolen document was located very close to washington , d . c . their art crime team recovered the letter but were unable to press charges because the time of limitations had ended .
the fbi worked closely with the archives to determine that the letter was both authentic and definitely smithsonian's property .
the letter was written by darwin to thank an american geologist , dr . ferdinand vandeveer hayden , for sending him copies of his research into the geology of the region that would become yellowstone national park .
the letter is in fairly good condition , in spite of being out of the care of trained museum staff for so long .
" it was luckily in good shape , " says kapsalis , " and we just have to do some minor things in order to be able to unfold it .
it has some glue on it that has colored it slightly , but nothing that will prevent us from using it .
after it is repaired , we will take digital photos of it and that will be available online .
one of our goals is to get items of high research value or interest to the public online . "
it would now be difficult for an intern , visitor or a thief to steal a document like this .
" archiving practices have changed greatly since the 1970s , " says kapsalis , " and we keep our high value documents in a safe that i don't even have access to . "
how a poor , abandoned parisian boy became a top chef
a ) the busy streets in paris were uneven and caked in thick mud , but there was always a breathtaking sight to see in the shop windows of patisserie de la rue de la paix .
by 1814 , people crowded outside the bakery , straining for a glimpse of the latest sweet food created by the young chef who worked inside .
b ) his name was marie-antoine carême , and he had appeared , one day , almost out of nowhere .
but in his short lifetime , which ended exactly 184 years ago today , he would forever revolutionize french gourmet food , write best-selling cook books and think up magical dishes for royals and other important people .
c ) carême's childhood was one part tragedy , equal part mystery .
born the 16th child to poor parents in paris in either 1783 or 1784 , a young carême was suddenly abandoned at the height of the french revolution .
at 8 years old , he worked as a kitchen boy for a restaurant in paris in exchange for room and board .
by age 15 , he had become an apprentice to sylvain bailly , a well-known dessert chef with a successful bakery in one of paris's most fashionable neighborhoods .
d ) carême was quick at learning in the kitchen .
bailly encouraged his young apprentice to learn to read and write .
carême would often spend his free afternoons at the nearby national library reading books on art and architecture .
in the back room of the little bakery , his interest in design and his baking talent combined to work wonders — he shaped delicious masterpieces out of flour , butter and sugar .
e ) in his teenage years , carême fashioned eatable copies of the late 18th century's most famous buildings — cookies in the shape of ruins of ancient athens and pies in the shape of ancient chinese palaces and temples .
sylvain bailly , his master , displayed these luxuriant creations — often as large as 4 feet tall — in his bakery windows .
f ) carême's creations soon captured the discriminating eye of a french diplomat , charles maurice de talleyrand-périgord .
around 1804 , talleyrand challenged carême to produce a full menu for his personal castle , instructing the young baker to use local , seasonal fruits and vegetables and to avoid repeating main dishes over the course of an entire year .
the experiment was a grand success and talleyrand's association with french nobility would prove a profitable connection for carême .
g ) french emperor napoleon bonaparte was known to be unimpressed by the declining taste of early 18th century cooking , but under pressure to entertain paris's high society , he too called carême to his kitchen at tuileries palace .
in 1810 , carême designed the extraordinary cake for the wedding of napoleon and his second bride , marie-louise of austria .
he became one of the first modern chefs to focus on the appearance of his table , not just the flavor of his dishes .
" i want order and taste .
a well-displayed meal is enhanced one hundred percent in my eyes , " he later wrote in one of his cook books .
h ) in 1816 , carême began a culinary journey which would forever mark his place as history's first top chef .
he voyaged to england to cook in the modern great kitchen of the prince regent ， george ⅳ , and crossed continents to prepare grand banquets for the tables of tsar alexander ⅰ of russia .
never afraid to talk up his own accomplishments , a boastful carême made a fortune as wealthy families with social ambitions invited him to their kitchens .
later , in his cook books , he would often include a sketch of himself , so that people on the street would be able to recognize — and admire — him .
i ) carême's cooking displays became the symbol of fine french dining ; they were plentiful , beautiful and imposing .
guests would fall silent in wonder as servants carried carême's fancy creations into the dining hall .
for a banquet celebrating the grand duke nicholas of russia's visit to george ⅳ's brighton pavillion on jan . 18 , 1817 , the menu featured 120 different dishes , highlighting eight different soups , 40 main courses , and 32 desserts .
j ) as he traveled through the homes of early 19th century nobility , carême forged the new art of french gourmet food .
locked in hot kitchens , carême created his four " mother sauces . "
these sauces — béchamel , velouté , espagnole and allemande — formed the central building blocks for many french main courses .
he also perfected the soufflé — a baked egg dish , and introduced the standard chef's uniform — the same double-breasted white coat and tall white hat still worn by many chefs today .
the white clothing conveyed an image of cleanliness , according to carême — and in his realm , appearance was everything .
k ) between meals , carême wrote cook books that would be used in european kitchens for the next century .
his manuals including the royal parisian baker and the massive five-volume art of french cooking series ( 1833-1847 , completed after his death ) first systematized many basic principles of cooking , complete with drawings and step-by-step directions .
long before television cooking shows , carême walked readers through common kitchen tasks , instructing them to " try this for yourself , at home " as famous american chef julia child might do , many years later .
l ) in the end , however ， it was the kitchen that did carême in .
decades of working over coal fires in tight , closed spaces with little fresh air ( to ensure his dishes would not get cold ) had fatally damaged his lungs .
on jan . 12 , 1833 , carême died just before he turned 50 .
m ) but in his lifetime , carême , ever confident , could see beyond his short domination in the kitchen .
he wanted to " set the standard for beauty in classical and modern cooking , and prove to the distant future that the french chefs of the 19th century were the most famous in the world , " as he wrote in his papers .
n ) decades later , chef auguste escoffier would build upon carême's concept of french cuisine .
but in the very beginning , there was just carême , the top chef who elevated dining into art .
roughly the size of a soda can , sitting on a bookshelf , a relatively harmless gadget may be turning friends away from your home .
the elephant in your living room is your internet-connected security camera , a device people are increasingly using for peace of mind in their homes .
but few stop to think about the effect these devices may have on house guests .
should you tell your friends , for instance , that they're being recorded while you all watch the big game together ?
" it's certainly new territory , especially as home security cameras become easier to install , " says lizzie post , president of the emily post institute , america's foremost manners advisors .
" i think it will be very interesting to see what etiquette emerges in terms of whether you tell people you have a camera or not , and whether guests have a right to ask that it be turned off , if it's not a security issue . "
post wants to make clear that she's not talking about legal rights , but rather personal preferenc .
she also wants to explain that there are no right or wrong answers regarding manners on this front yet , because the technology is just now becoming mainstream .
besides , the emily post institute doesn't dictate manners .
when it comes to security cameras , post says it's a host's responsibility to make sure guests feel comfortable within their home .
" i'm always a fan of being open and honest . "
for instance , if the host casually acknowledges that there is a camera in the room by telling a story about it , that may be enough to provide an opening for a guest to say if they are uncomfortable .
however , if a contractor is working in your home , you don't need to tell them that there are cameras watching .
then again , the air of accountability that the camera generates can also work in contractors ' favor .
" if anything does go wrong while they're in the house , they don't want to be blamed for it , " she says .
" in fact , the camera could be the thing that proves that they didn't steal the $ 20 , or knock the vase off the table . "
pepsico is to spend billions of dollars to develop drinks and snacks and reformulate existing ones with lower sugar , salt and fat , as consumers demand healthier options and regulatory pressure intensifies amid an obesity epidemic .
the maker of mountain dew and gatorade has been one of the earlier movers in the industry to offer products with reduced levels of unhealthy ingredients — pepsico claims a packet of its chips now contains less salt than a slice of white bread .
however , its new 10 - year plan makes clear it believes it still has a long way to go .
shifting eating habits , including a sharp drop in consumption of sparkling drinks , have forced radical change on the industry .
but those shifts have yet to be reflected in record obesity levels , which stand at 36.5 % overall in the us .
indra nooyi , pepsico chairman , said the plan to make its products healthier was important for the company's growth .
but on the subject of obesity , she pointed out that consumers ’ lifestyles have changed significantly , with many people being more sedentary not least because more time is spent in front of computers .
she said pepsico's contribution was to produce healthier snacks that still tasted good .
" society has to change its habits , " she added .
" we can't do much to alter sedentary lifestyles , but we can provide consumers with great-tasting products , low in salt , sugar and fat .
in the past we had to have a taste trade-off .
but we're breaking that trade-off . "
pepsico's plan for its foods and drinks is based on guidelines from the world health organisation , which last week backed using taxes on sparkling drinks to reduce sugar consumption .
initiatives also include efforts to reduce its environmental impact , water consumption and materials used in packaging by 2025 .
pepsico did not say exactly how much it planned to invest to reach its goals .
however , dr mehmood khan , chief scientific officer , said the company had doubled research and development spending in the past five years and was " committed to sustaining investment " , adding that companies cannot cost-cut their way to increasing sales .
pepsico's research and development budget in 2015 was $ 754 million .
a ) when you drop a piece of food on the floor , is it really ok to eat if you pick it up within five seconds ?
an urban food myth contends that if food spends just a few seconds on the floor , dirt and germs won ’ t have much of a chance to contaminate it .
research in my lab has focused on how food becomes contaminated , and we ’ ve done some work on this particular piece of wisdom .
b ) while the " five-second rule " might not seem like the most pressing issue for food scientists to get to the bottom of , it ’ s still worth investigating food myths like this one because they shape our beliefs about when food is safe to eat .
c ) so is five seconds on the floor the critical thresholdthat separates a piece of eatable food from a case of food poisoning ?
it ’ s a bit more complicated than that .
it depends on just how many bacteria can make it from floor to food in a few seconds and just how dirty the floor is .
d ) wondering if food is still ok to eat after it ’ s dropped on the floor is a pretty common experience .
and it ’ s probably not a new one either .
a well-known , but inaccurate , story about julia child may have contributed to this food myth .
some viewers of her cooking show , the french chef , insist they saw child drop lamb on the floor and pick it up , with the advice that if they were alone in the kitchen , their guests would never know .
e ) in fact it was a potato pancake , and it fell on the stovetop , not on the floor .
child put it back in the pan , saying , " but you can always pick it up and if you ’ re alone in the kitchen , who ’ s going to see it ? "
but the misremembered story persists .
it ’ s harder to pin down the origins of the oft-quoted five-second rule , but a 2003 study reported that 70 % of women and 56 % of men surveyed were familiar with the five-second rule and that women were more likely than men to eat food that had dropped on the floor .
f ) so what does science tell us about what a few moments on the floor means for the safety of your food ?
the earliest research report on the five-second rule is attributed to jillian clarke , a high school student participating in a research project at the university of illinois .
clarke and her colleagues introduced bacteria to floor tilesand then placed cookies on the tiles for varying times .
they reported bacteria were transferred from the tiles to the cookies within five seconds , but didn ’ t report the specific amount of bacteria that made it from the tiles to the food .
g ) but how many bacteria actually transfer in five seconds ?
in 2007 , my lab at clemson university published a study in the journal of applied microbiology .
we wanted to know if the length of time food is in contact with a contaminated surface affected the rate of transfer of bacteria to the food .
to find out , we introduced bacteria to squares of tile , carpet or wood .
five minutes after that , we placed either bacon or bread on the surface for 5,30 or 60 seconds , and then measured the number of bacteria transferred to the food .
we repeated this exact procedure after the bacteria had been on the surface for 2,4 , 8 and 24 hours .
h ) we found that the number of bacteria transferred to either kind of food didn ’ t depend much on how long the food was in contact with the contaminated surface — whether for a few seconds or for a whole minute .
the overall number of bacteria on the surface mattered more , and this decreased over time after the initial introduction .
it looks like what ’ s at issue is less how long your food stays on the floor and much more how contaminated with bacteria that patch of floor happens to be .
i ) we also found that the kind of surface made a difference as well .
carpets , for instance , seem to be slightly better places to drop your food than wood or tile .
when a carpet was contaminated , less than 1 % of the bacteria were transferred .
but when the food was in contact with tile or wood , 45-70 % of bacteria were .
j ) last year , a study from aston university in the uk used nearly identical parametersto our study and found similar results .
they also reported that 87 % of people asked either would eat or had eaten food fallen on the floor .
k ) should you eat food fallen on the floor then ?
from a food safety standpoint , if you have millions or more bacteria on a surface , 0.1 % is still enough to make you sick .
also , certain types of bacteria are extremely harmful , and it takes only a small number to make you sick .
for example , 10 bacteria or less of an especially deadly strain of bacteria can cause severe illness and death in people with compromised immune systems .
but the chance of these bacteria being on most surfaces is very low .
l ) and it ’ s not just dropping food on the floor that can lead to bacterial contamination .
bacteria are carried by various " media " , which can include raw food , moist surfaces where bacteria have been left , our hands or skin and from coughing or sneezing .
hands , foods and utensilscan carry individual bacteria living in communities contained within a protective film .
these microscopic layers of deposits containing bacteria are known as biofilms and they are found on most surfaces and objects .
biofilm communities can harbor bacteria longer and are very difficult to clean .
becteria in these communities also have an enhanced resistance to sanitizersand antibiotics compared to bacteria living on their own .
m ) so the next time you consider eating fallen food , the odds are in your favor that you can eat it without getting sick .
but in the rare chance that there is a micro-organism that there is a micro-organism that can make you sick on the exact spot where the food dropped , you can be fairly sure that the bug is on the food you are about to put in your mouth .
n ) research or common sense tells us that the best thing to do is keep your hands , utensils and other surfaces clean .
the latest in cat research reveals that the lovely animal seems to have a basic grasp on both the laws of physics and the ins and outs of cause and effect .
according to a newly published study , cats seem to be able to predict the location of hiding preyusing both their ears and an inbornunderstanding of how the physical world works .
in a recent experiment , japanese researchers taped 30 domestic cats reacting to a container that a team member shook .
some containers rattled ； others did not .
when the container was tipped over , sometimes an object fell out and sometimes it didn ’ t .
it turns out that the cats were remarkably smart about what would happen when a container was tipped over .
when an object did not drop out of the bottom of a rattling container , they looked at it for a longer time than they did when the container behaved as expected .
" cats use a causal-logical understanding of noise or sounds to predict the appearance of invisible objects , " lead researcher saho takagi says in a press release .
the researchers conclude that cats ’ hunting style may have developed based on their common-sense abilities to infer where prey is , using their hearing .
scientists have explored this idea with other endearing creatures : babies .
like cats , babies appear to engage in what ’ s called " preferential looking " — looking longer at things that are interesting or unusual than things they perceive as normal .
when babies ’ expectations are violated in experiments like the ones performed with the cats , they react much like their animal friends .
psychologists have shown that babies apparently expect their world to comply with the laws of physics and cause and effect as early as two months of age .
does the study mean that cats will soon grasp the ins and outs of cause and effect ?
maybe .
okay , so cats may not be the next physics faculty members at america ’ s most important research universities .
but by demonstrating their common sense , they ’ ve shown that the divide between cats and humans may not be that great after all .
imagine you enter a car with no steering wheel , no brake or accelerator padals .
under a voice-activated command , you say an address .
" the fastest route will take us 15.3 minutes .
should i take it ? "
you say " yes " and you are on your way .
the car responds and starts moving all by itself .
all you have to do is sit back and relax .
how weird would it be if , one day in the future , everyone had such a car ?
no crazy driving , no insults , no cutting in ; traffic laws would be respected and driving much safer .
on the other hand , imagine the cost savings for local police enforcement and town budgets without all those speeding and parking tickets .
a new technology has the potential to change modern society in radical ways .
there ’ s no question that self-driving vehicles could be an enormous benefit .
the potential for safer cars means accident statistics would drop : some 94 % of road accidents in the u . s . involve human error .
older drivers and visually-or physically-impaired people would gain a new level of freedom .
maintaining safe speeds and being electric , self-driving cars would drastically reduce pollution levels and dependency on non-renewable fuels .
roads would be quieter , people safer .
but we must also consider the impact of the new technology on those who now depend on driving for their livelihoods .
according to the u . s . department of labor , in may 2015 there were 505,560 registered school bus drivers .
the american trucking association lists approximately 3.5 million professional truck drivers in the u . s .
the companies developing self-driving vehicles should be partnering with state and federal authorities to offer retraining for this massive workforce , many of whom will be displaced by the new technology .
this is similar to what ’ s happening in the coal and oil industries , a situation that fuels much of the current political discontent in this country .
new technologies will , and should , be developed .
this is how society moves forward .
however , progress can ’ t be one-sided .
it is necessary for the companies and state agencies involved to consider the ethical consequences of these potential changes to build a better future for all .
food-as-medicine movement is witnessing progress
several times a month , you can find a doctor in the aisles of ralph ’ s market in huntington beach , california , wearing a white coat and helping people learn about food .
on one recent day , this doctor was daniel nadeau , wandering the cereal aisle with allison scott , giving her some idea on how to feed kids who persistently avoid anything that is healthy .
" have you thought about trying fresh juices in the morning ? "
he asks her .
" the frozen oranges and apples are a little cheaper , and fruits are really good for the brain .
juices are quick and easy to prepare , you can take the frozen fruit out the night before and have it ready the next morning . "
scott is delighted to get food advice from a physician who is program director of the nearby mary and dick allen diabetes center , part of the st . joseph hoag health alliance .
the center ’ s " shop with your doc ’ program sends doctors to the grocery store to meet with any patients who sign up for the service , plus any other shoppers who happen to be around with questions .
nadeau notices the pre-made macaroni - and-cheese boxes in scott ’ s shopping cart and suggests she switch to whole grain macaroni and real cheese .
" so i ’ d have to make it ?
" she asks , her enthusiasm fading at the thought of how long that might take , just to have her kids reject it .
" i ’ m not sure they ’ d eat it .
they just won ’ t eat it . "
nadeau says sugar and processed foods are big contributors to the rising diabetes rates among children .
" in america , over 50 percent of our food is processed food , " nadeau tells her .
" and only 5 percent of our food is plant-based food .
i think we should try to reverse that . "
scott agrees to try more fruit juices for the kids and to make real macaroni and cheese .
score one point for the doctor , zero for diabetes .
nadeau is part of a small revolution developing across california .
the food-as-medicine movement has been around for decades , but it ’ s making progress as physicians and medical institutions make food a formal part of treatment , rather than relying solely on medications .
by prescribing nutritional changes or launching programs such as " shop with your doc ’ , they are trying to prevent , limit or even reverse disease by changing what patients eat .
" there ’ s no question people can take things a long way toward reversing diabetes , reversing high blood pressure , even preventing cancer by food choices , " nadeau says .
in the big picture , says dr . richard afable , ceo and president of st . joseph hoag health , medical institutions across the state are starting to make a philosophical switch to becoming a health organization , not just a health care organization .
that feeling echoes the beliefs of the therapeutic food pantry program at zuckerberg san francisco general hospital , which completed its pilot phase and is about to expand on an ongoing basis to five clinic sites throughout the city .
the program will offer patients several bags of food prescribed for their condition , along with intensive training in how to cook it .
" we really want to link food and medicine , and not just give away food , " says dr . rita nguyen , the hospital ’ s medical director of healthy food initiatives .
" we want people to understand what they ’ re eating , how to prepare it , the role food plays in their lives . "
in southern california , loma linda university school of medicine is offering specialized training for its resident physicians in lifestyle medicine — that is a formal specialty in using food to treat disease .
research findings increasingly show the power of food to treat or reverse diseases , but that does not mean that diet alone is always the solution , or that every illness can benefit substantially from dietary changes .
nonetheless , physicians say that they look at the collective data and a clear picture emerges : that the salt , sugar , fat and processed foods in the american diet contribute to the nation ’ s high rates of obesity , diabetes and heart disease .
according to the world health organization , 80 percent of deaths from heart disease and stroke are caused by high blood pressure , tobacco use , elevated cholesterol and low consumption of fruits and vegetables .
" it ’ s a different paradigm of how to treat disease , " says dr . brenda rea , who helps run the family and preventive medicine residency program at loma linda university school of medicine .
the lifestyle medicine specialty is designed to train doctors in how to prevent and treat disease , in part , by changing patients ’ nutritional habits .
the medical center and school at loma linda also has a food cupboard and kitchen for patients .
this way , patients not only learn about which foods to buy , but also how to prepare them at home .
many people don ’ t know how to cook , rea says , and they only know how to heat things up .
that means depending on packaged food with high salt and sugar content .
so teaching people about which foods are healthy and how to prepare them , she says , can actually transform a patient ’ s life .
and beyond that , it might transform the health and lives of that patient ’ s family .
" what people eat can be medicine or poison , " rea says .
" as a physician , nutrition is one of the most powerful things you can change to reverse the effects of long-term disease . "
studies have explored evidence that dietary changes can slow inflammation , for example , or make the body inhospitable to cancer cells .
in general , many lifestyle medicine physicians recommend a plant-based diet — particularly for people with diabetes or other inflammatory conditions .
" as what happened with tobacco , this will require a cultural shift , but that can happen , " says nguyen .
" in the same way physicians used to smoke , and then stopped smoking and were able to talk to patients about it , i think physicians can have a bigger voice in it .
california has been facing a drought for many years now , with certain areas even having to pump freshwater hundreds of miles to their distribution system .
the problem is growing as the population of the state continues to expand .
new research has found deep water reserves under the state which could help solve their drought crisis .
previous drilling of wells could only reach depths of 1,000 feet , but due to new pumping practices , water deeper than this can now be extracted .
the team at stanford investigated the aquifersbelow this depth and found that reserves may be triple what was previously thought .
it is profitable to drill to depths more than 1,000 feet for oil and gas extraction , but only recently in california has it become profitable to pump water from this depth .
the aquifers range from 1,000 to 3,000 feet below the ground , which means that pumping will be expensive and there are other concerns .
the biggest concern of pumping out water from this deep in the gradual settling down of the land surface .
as the water is pumped out , the vacant space left is compacted by the weight of the earth above .
even though pumping from these depths is expensive , it is still cheaper than desalinatingthe ocean water in the largely coastal state .
some desalination plants exist where feasible , but they are costly to run and can need constant repairs .
wells are much more reliable sources of freshwater , and california is hoping that these deep wells may be the answer to their severe water shortage .
one problem with these sources is that the deep water also has a higher level of salt than shallower aquifers .
this means that some wells may even need to undergo desalination after extraction , thus increasing the cost .
research from the exhaustive study of groundwater from over 950 drilling logs has just been published .
new estimates of the water reserves now go up to 2,700 billion cubic meters of freshwater .
the alphago program ’ s victory is an example of how smart computers have become .
but can artificial intelligence ( ai ) machines act ethically , meaning can they be honest and fair ?
one example of ai is driverless cars .
they are already on california roads , so it is not too soon to ask whether we can program a machine to act ethically .
as driverless cars improve , they will save lives .
they will make fewer mistakes than human drivers do .
sometimes , however , they will face a choice between lives .
should the cars be programmed to avoid hitting a child running across the road , even if that will put their passengers at risk ?
what about making a sudden turn to avoid a dog ?
what if the only risk is damage to the car itself , not to the passengers ?
perhaps there will be lessons to learn from driverless cars , but they are not super-intelligent beings .
teaching ethics to a machine even more intelligent than we are will be the bigger challenge .
about the same time as alphago ’ s triumph , microsoft ’ s " chatbot ’ took a bad turn .
the software , named taylor , was designed to answer messages from people aged 18-24 .
taylor was supposed to be able to learn from the messages she received .
she was designed to slowly improve her ability to handle conversations , but some people were teaching taylor racist ideas .
when she started saying nice things about hitler , microsoft turned her off and deleted her ugliest messages .
alphago ’ s victory and taylor ’ s defeat happened at about the same time .
this should be a warning to us .
it is one thing to use ai within a game with clear rules and clear goals .
it is something very different to use ai in the real world .
the unpredictability of the real world may bring to the surface a troubling software problem .
eric schmidt is one of the bosses of google , which own alphogo .
he thinks ai will be positive for humans .
he said people will be the winner , whatever the outcome .
advances in ai will make human beings smarter , more able and " just better human beings . "
how work will change when most of us live to 100
today in the united states there are 72,000 centenarians.worldwide , probably 450,000 .
if current trends continue , then by 2050 there will be more than a million in the us alone .
according to the work of professor james vaupel and his co-researchers , 50 % of babies born in the us in 2007 have a life expectancy of 104 or more .
broadly the same holds for the uk , germany , france , italy and canada , and for japan 50 % of 2007 babies can expect to live to 107 .
understandably , there are concerns about what this means for public finances given the associated health and pension challenges .
these challenges are real , and society urgently needs to address them .
but it is also important to look at the wider picture of what happens when so many people live for 100 years .
it is a mistake to simply equate longevity with issues of old age .
longer lives have implications for all of life , not just the end of it .
our view is that if many people are living for longer , and are healthier for longer , then this will result in an inevitable redesign of work and life .
when people live longer , they are not only older for longer , but also younger for longer .
there is some truth in the saying that " 70 is the new 60 " or " 40 the new 30 . "
if you age more slowly over a longer time period , then you are in some sense younger for longer .
but the changes go further than that .
take , for instance , the age at which people make commitments such as buying a house , getting married , having children , or starting a career .
these are all fundamental commitments that are now occurring later in life .
in 1962 , 50 % of americans were married by age 21 .
by 2014 , that milestonehad shifted to age 29 .
while there are numerous factors behind these shifts , one factor is surely a growing realization for the young that they are going to live longer .
options are more valuable the longer they can be held .
so if you believe you will live longer , then options become more valuable , and early commitment becomes less attractive .
the result is that the commitments that previously characterized the beginning of adulthood are now being delayed , and new patterns of behavior and a new stage of life are emerging for those in their twenties .
longevity also pushes back the age of retirement , and not only for financial reasons .
yes , unless people are prepared to save a lot more , our calculations suggest that if you are now in your mid - 40s , then you are likely to work until your early 70s ; and if you are in your early 20s , there is a real chance you will need to work until your late 70s or possibly even into your 80s .
but even if people are able to economically support a retirement at 65 , over thirty years of potential inactivity is harmful to cognitive and emotional vitality .
many people may simply not want to do it .
and yet that does not mean that simply extending our careers is appealing .
just lengthening that second stage of full-time work may secure the financial assets needed for a 100 - year life , but such persistent work will inevitably exhaust precious intangible assets such as productive skills , vitality , happiness , and friendship .
the same is true for education .
it is impossible that a single shot of education , administered in childhood and early adulthood , will be able to support a sustained , 60 - year career .
if you factor in the projected rates of technological change , either your skills will become unnecessary , or your industry outdated .
that means that everyone will , at some point in their life , have to make a number of major reinvestments in their skills .
it seems likely , then , that the traditional three-stage life will evolve into multiple stages containing two , three , or oven more different careers .
each of these stages could potentially be different .
in one the focus could be on building financial success and personal achievement , in another on creating a better work / life balance , still another on exploring and understanding options more fully , or becoming an independent producer , yet another on making a socia
contribution .
these stages will span sectors , take people to different cities , and provide
foundation for building a wide variety of skills .
j ) transitions between stages could be marked with sabbaticals as people find tim
rest and recharge their health , re-invest in their relationships , or improve their skills .
at times ,
these breaks and transitions will be self-determined , at others they will be forced as existing roles , firms , or industries cease to exist .
k ) a multi-stage life will have profound changes not just in how you manage your career , but also in your approach to life .
an increasingly important skill will be your ability to deal with change and even welcome it .
a three-stage life has few transitions , while a multi-stage life has many .
that is why being self-aware , investing in broader networks of friends , and being open to new ideas will become even more crucial skills .
l ) these multi-stage lives will create extraordinary variety across groups of people simply because there are so many ways of sequencing the stages .
more stages mean more possible sequences .
m ) with this variety will come the end of the close association of age and stage .
i n a three-stage life , people leave university at the same time and the same age , they tend to start their careers and family at the same age , they proceed through middle management all roughly the same time , and then move into retirement within a few years of each other .
in a multi-stage life , you could be an undergraduate at 20 , 40 , or 60 ; a manager at 30 , 50 , or 70 ; and become an independent producer at any age .
n ) current life structures , career paths , educational choices , and social norms are out of tune with the emerging reality of longer lifespans .
the three-stage life of full-time education , followed by continuous work , and then complete retirement may have worked for our parents or even grandparents , but it is not relevant today .
we believe that to focus on longevity as primarily an issue of aging is to miss its full implications .
longevity is not necessarily about being older for longer .
it is about living longer , being older later , and being younger longer .
in the classic marriage vow , couples promise to stay together in sickness and in health .
but a new study finds that the risk of divorce among older couples rises when the wife-not the husband — becomes seriously ill .
" married women diagnosed with a serious health condition may find themselves struggling with the impact of their disease while also experiencing the stress of divorce , " said researcher amelia karraker .
karraker and co-author kenzie latham analyzed 20 years of data on 2,717 marriages from a study conducted by indiana university since 1992 .
at the time of the first interview , at least one of the partners was over the age of 50 .
the researchers examined how the onsetof four serious physical illnesses affected marriages .
they found that , overall , 31 % of marriages ended in divorce over the period studied .
the incidence of new chronicillness onset increased over time as will , with more husbands than wives developing serious health problems .
" we found that women are doubly vulnerable to marital break-up in the face of illness , " karraker said .
" they ’ re more likely to be widowed , and if they ’ re the noes who become ill , they ’ re more likely to get divorced . "
while the study didn ’ t assess why divorce in more likely when wives but not husbands become seriously ill , karraker offers a few possible reasons .
" gender norms and social expectations about caregiving many make it more difficult for men to provide care to sick spouses , " karraker said .
" and because of the imbalance in marriage markets , especially in older ages , divorced men have more choices among prospective partners than divorced women . "
given the increasing concern about health care costs for the aging population , karraker believes policymakers should be aware of the relationship between disease and risk of divorce .
" offering support services to spouses caring for their other halves may reduce marital stress and prevent divorce at older ages , " she said .
" but it ’ s also important to recognize that the pressure to divorce may be health-related and that sick ex-wives may need additional care and services to prevent worsening health and increased health costs . "
if you were like most children , you probably got upset when your mother called you by a sibling ’ sname .
how could she not know you ?
did it mean she loved you less ?
probably not .
according to the first research to tackle this topic head-on , misnaming the most familiar people in our life is a common cognitive error that has to do with how our memories classify and store familiar names .
the study , published online in april in the journal memory and cognition , found that the " wrong " name is not random but is invariably fished out from the same relationship pond : children , siblings , friends .
the study did not examine the possibility of deep psychological significance to the mistake , says psychologist david rubin , " but it does tell us who ’ s in and who ’ s out of the group . "
the study also found that within that group , misnamings occurred where the names shared initial or internal sounds , like jimmy and joanie or john and bob .
physical resemblance between people was not a factor .
nor was gender .
the researchers conducted five separate surveys of more than 1,700 people .
some of the surveys included only college students ; others were done with a mixed-age population .
some asked subjects about incidents where someone close to them — family or friend — had called them by another person ’ s name .
the other surveys asked about times when subjects had themselves called someone close to them by the wrong name .
all the surveys found that people mixed up names within relationship groups such as grandchildren , friends and siblings but hardly ever crossed these boundaries .
in general , the study found that undergraduates were almost as likely as old people to make this mistake and men as likely as women .
older people and this mistake and men as likely as women .
older people and women made the mistake slightly more often , but that may be because grandparents have more grandchildren to mix up than parents have children .
also , mothers may call on their children more often than fathers , given traditional gender norms .
there was no evidence that errors occurred more when the misnamer was frustrated , tired or angry .
make stuff , fail , and learn while you ’ re at it
we ’ ve always been a hands-on , do-it-yourself kind of nation .
ben franklin , one of america ’ s founding fathers , didn ’ t just invent the lightning rod .
his creations include glasses , innovative stoves and more .
franklin , who was largely self-taught , may have been a genius , but he wasn ’ t really an exception when it comes to american making and creativity .
the personal computing revolution and philosophy of disruptive innovation of silicon valley grew , in part , out of the creations of the homebrew computer club , which was founded in a garage in menlo park , california , in the mid - 1970s .
members — including guys named jobs and wozniak — started making and inventing things they couldn ’ t buy .
so it ’ s no surprise that the maker movement today is thriving in communities and some schools across america .
making is available to ordinary people who aren ’ t tied to big companies , big defense labs or research universities .
the maker philosophy echoes old ideas advocated by john dewey , montessori , and even ancient greek philosophers , as we pointed out recently .
these maker spaces are often outside of classrooms , and are serving an important educational function .
the maker movement is rediscovering learning by doing , which is dewey ’ s phrase from 100 years ago .
we are rediscovering dewey and montessori and a lot of the practices that they pioneered that have been forgotten or at least put aside .
a maker space is a place which can be in a school , but it doesn ’ t look like a classroom .
it can be in a library .
it can be out in the community .
it has tools and materials .
it ’ s a place where you get to make things based on your interest and on what you ’ re learning to do .
ideas about learning by doing have struggled to become mainstream educationally , despite being old concepts from dewey and montessori , plato and aristotle , and in the american contcxt , ralph emerson , on the value of experience and self-reliance .
it ’ s not necessarily an efficient way to learn .
we learn , in a sense , by trial and error .
learning from experience is something that takes time and patience .
it ’ s very individualized .
if your goal is to have standardized approaches to learning , where everybody learns the same thing at the same time in the same way , then learning by doing doesn ’ t really fit that mold anymore .
it ’ s not the world of textbooks .
it ’ s not the world of testing .
g ) learning by doing may not be efficient , but it is effective .
project-based learning has grown in popularity with teachers and administrators .
however , project-based learning is not making .
although there is a connection , there is also a distinction .
the difference lies in whether the project is in a sense defined and developed by the student or whether it ’ s assigned by a teacher .
we ’ ll all get the kids to build a small boat .
we are all going to learn about x , y , and z .
that tends to be one form of project-based learning .
h ) i really believe the core idea of making is to have an idea within your head — or you just borrow it from someone — and begin to develop it , repeat it and improve it .
then , realize that idea somehow .
that thing that you make is valuable to you and you can share it with others .
i ’ m interested in how these things are expressions of that person , their ideas , and their interactions with the world .
i ) in some ways , a lot of forms of making in school trivializemaking .
the thing that you make has no value to you .
once you are done demonstrating whatever concept was in the textbook , you throw away the pipe cleaners , the cardboard tubes .
j ) making should be student-directed and student-led , otherwise it ’ s boring .
it doesn ’ t have the motivation of the student .
i ’ m not saying that students should not learn concepts or not learn skills .
they do .
but to really harness their motivation is to build upon their interest .
it ’ s to let them be in control and to drive the car .
k ) teachers should aim to build a supportive , creative environment for students to do this work .
a very social environment , where they are learning from each other .
when they have a problem , it isn ’ t the teacher necessarily coming in to solve it .
they are responsible for working through that problem .
it might be they have to talk to other students in the class to help get an answer .
the teacher ’ s role is more of a coach or observer .
sometimes , to people , it sounds like this is a diminished rote for teachers .
i think it ’ s a heightened role .
you ’ re ereating this environment , like a maker space .
you have 20 kids doing different things .
you are watching them and really it ’ s the human behaviors you ’ re looking at .
are they engaged ?
a they developing and repeating their project ?
are they stumbling ？ do they need something that they don ’ t have ?
can you help them be aware of where they are ?
m ) my belief is that the goal of making is not to get every kid to be hands-on , but it enable us to be good learners .
it ’ s not the knowledge that is valuable , it ’ s the practice of learning new things and understanding how things work .
these are processes that you are developing so that you are able , over time , to tackle more interesting problems , more challenging problems — problems that require many people instead of one person , and many skills instead of one .
n ) if teachers keep it form-free and student-led , it can still be tied to a curriculum and an educational plan .
i think a maker space is more like a like a library in that there are multiple subjects and multiple things that you can learn .
what seems to be missing in school is how these subjects integrate , how they fit together in any meaningful way .
rather than saying , " this is science , over here is history , ’ i see schools taking this idea of projects and looking at : how do they support children in higher level learning ?
i feel like this is a shift away form a subject matter-based curriculum to a more experiential curriculum or learning .
it ’ s still in its early stages , but i think it ’ s shifting around not what kids learn but how they learn .
most kids grow up learning they cannot draw on the walls .
but it might be time to unlearn that training — this summer , group of culture addicts , artists and community organizers are inviting new yorkers to write all over the walls of an old house on governor ’ s island .
the project is called writing on it all , and it ’ s a participatory writing project and artistic experiment that has happened on governor ’ s island every summer since 2013 .
" most of the participants are people who are just walking by or are on the island for other reasons , or they just kind of happen to be there , " alexandra chasin , artistic director of writing on it all , tells smithsonian.com .
the 2016 season runs through june 26 and features sessions facilitated by everyone from dancers to domestic workers .
each session has a theme , and participants are given a variety of materials and prompts and asked to cover surfaces with their thoughts and art .
this year , the programs range from one that turns the house into a collaborative essay to one that explores the meaning of exile .
governor ’ s island is a national historic landmark district long used for military purposes .
now known as " new york ’ s shared space for art and play , " the island , which lies between manhattan and brooklyn in upper new york bay , is closed to cars but open to summer tourists who flck for festivals , picnics , adventures , as well as these " legal graffiti " sessions .
the notes and art scribbled on the walls are an experiment in self-expression .
so far , participants have ranged in age from 2 to 85 .
though chasin says the focus of the work is on the activity of writing , rather than the text that ends up getting written , some of the work that comes out of the sessions has stuck with her .
" one of the sessions that moved me the most was state violence on black women and black girls , " says chasin , explaining that in one room , people wrote down the names of those killed because of it .
" people do beautiful work and leave beautiful messages . "
online programs to fight depression are already commercially available .
while they sound efficient and cost-saving , a recent study reports that they are not effective , primarily because depressed patients are not likely to engage with them or stick with them .
the study looked at computer-assisted cognitive behavioral therapy ( cbt ) and found that it was no more effective in treating depression than the usual care patients receive from a primary care doctor .
traditional cbt is considered an effective form of talk therapy for depression , helping people challenge negative thoughts and change the way they think in order to change their mood and behaviors .
however , online cbt programs have been gaining popularity , with the attraction of providing low-cost help wherever someone has access to a computer .
a team of researchers from the university of y ork conducted a randomized control trial with 691 depressed patients from 83 physician practices across england .
the patients were split into three groups : one group received only usual care from a physician while the other two groups received usual care from a physician plus one of two computerized cbt programs .
participants were balanced across the three groups for age , sex , educational background , severity and duration of depression , and use of antidepressants .
after four months , the patients using the computerized cbt programs had no improvement in depression levels over the patients who were only getting usual care from their doctors .
" it ’ s an important , cautionary note that we shouldn ’ t get too carried away with the idea that a computer system can replace doctors and therapists , " says christopher dowrick , a professor of primary medical care at the university of liverpool .
" we do still need the human touch or the human interaction , particularly when people are depressed . "
being depressed can mean feeling " lost in your own small , negative , dark world , " dowrick says .
having a person , instead of a computer , reach out to you is particularly important in combating that sense of isolation .
" when you ’ re emotionally vulnerable , you ’ re even more in need of a caring human being , " he says .
living with parents edges out other living arrangements for 18 - to 34 - year-olds .
broad demographic shifts is marital status , educational attainment and employment have transformed the way young adults in the u . s . are living , and a new pew research center analysis highlights the implications of these changes for the most basic element of their lives — where they call home .
in 2014 , for the first time in more than 130 years , adults ages 18 to 34 were slightly more likely to be living in their parents ’ home than they were to be living with a spouse or partner in their own household .
this turn of events is fueled primarily by the dramatic drop in the share of young americans who are choosing to settle down romantically before age 35 .
dating back to 1880 , the most common living arrangement among young adults has been living with a romantic partner , whether a spouse or a significant other .
this type of arrangement peaked around 1960 , when 62 % of the nation ’ s 18 - to 34 - year-olds were living with a spouse or partner in their own household , and only one-in-five were living with their parents .
by 2014 , 31.6 % of young adults were living with a spouse or partner in their own household , below the share living in the home of their parent ( s ) ( 32.1 % ) .
some 14 % of young adults lived alone , were a single parent or lived with one or more roommates .
the remaining 22 % lived in the home of another family member ( such as a grandparent , in-law or sibling ) , a non-relative , or in group quarters like college dormitories .
it ’ s worth noting that the overall share of young adults living with their parents was not at a record high in 2014 .
this arrangement peaked around 1940 , when about 35 % of the nation ’ s 18 - to 34 - year-olds lived with mom and / or dad ( compared with 32 % in 2014 ) .
what has changed , instead , is the relative share adopting different ways of living in early adulthood , with the decline of romantic coupling pushing living at home to the top of a much less uniform list of living arrangements .
among young adults , living arrangements differ significantly by gender .
for men ages 18 to 34 , living at home with mom and / or dad has been the dominant living arrangement since 2009 , in 2014,28 % of young men were living with a spouse of partner in their own home , while 35 % were living in the home of their parent ( s ) .
young women , however , are still more likely to be living with a spouse of romantic partner ( 35 % ) than they are to be living with their parent ( s ) ( 29 % ) .
in 2014 , more young women ( 16 % ) than young men ( 13 % ) were heading up a household without a spouse or parther.this is mainly because women are more likely than men to be sigle parents living with their children .
for their part , young men ( 25 % ) are more likely than young women ( 19 % ) to be living in the home of another family member , a non-relative or in some type of group quarters .
a variety of factors contribute to the long-run increase in the share of young .
adults living with the parents .
the first in the postponement of , if not retreat from , marriage .
the average age of first marriage has risen steadily for decades .
in addition , a growing share of young adult may be avoiding marriage altogether .
a previous pew research center analysis projected that as many as one-in-four of today ’ s young adult may never marry .
while cohabitationhas been on the rise , the overall share of young adults either married or living with an unmarried patnerhas substantially fallen since 1990 .
in addition , trends in both employment status and wages have likely contributed to the growing share of young adults who are living in the home of their parent ( s ) , and this is especially true of young men .
employed young men are much less likely to live at home than young men without a job , and employment among young men has fallen significantly in recent decades .
the share of young men with jobs peaked around 1960 at 84 % .
in 2014 , only 71 % of 18 - to - 34 - year-old men were employed .
similarly with earnings , young men ’ s wages ( after adjusting for inflation ) have been on a downward trajectory since 1970 and fell significantly form 2000 to 2010 .
as wages have fallen , the share of young men living in the home of their parent ( s ) has risen .
economic factors seem to explain less of why young adult women are increasingly likely to live at home .
generally , young women have had growing success in the paid labor market since 1960 and hence might increasingly be expected to be a be to afford to afford to live independently of their parents .
for women , delayed marriage — which is related , in part , to labor market outcomes for men — may explain more of the increase in their living in the family home .
the great recession ( and modest recovery ) has also been associated with an increase in young adults living at home .
initially in the wake of the recession , college enrollments expanded , boosting the ranks of young adults living at home .
and given the weak job opportunities facing young adults , living at home was part of the private safety net help young adults to weather the economic storm .
beyond gender , young adult ’ s living arrangements differ considerable by education — which is tied to financial means .
for young adults without a bachelor ’ s degree , as of 2008 living at home with their parents was more prevalent than living with a romantic partner .
by 2014 , 36 % of 18 - to 34 - year-olds who had not completed a bachelor ’ s degree were living with their parent ( s ) while 27 % were living with a spouse or partner .
among college graduates , in 2014 46 % were married or living with a partner , and only 19 % were living with their parent ( s ) .
young adults with a college degree have fared much better in the labor market than their less-educated counterparts , which has in turn made it easier to establish their own households .
according to the majority of americans , women are every bit as capable of being good political leaders as men .
the same can be said of their ability to dominate the corporate boardroom .
and according to a new pew research center survey on women and leadership , most americans find women indistinguishable from men on key leadership traits such as intelligence and capacity for innovation , with many saying they ’ re stronger than men in terms of being passionate and organized leaders .
so why , then , are women in short supply at the top of government and business in the united states ?
according to the public , at least , it ’ s not that they lack toughness , management talent or proper skill sets .
it ’ s also not all about work-life balance .
although economic research and previous survey findings have shown that career interruptions related to motherhood may make it harder for women to advance in their careers and compete for top executive jobs , relatively few adults in the recent survey point to this as a key barrier for women seeking leadership roles .
only about one-in-five say women ’ s family responsibilities are a major reason why there aren ’ t more females in top leadership positions in business and politics .
instead , topping the list of reasons , about four-in-ten americans point to a double standard for women seeking to climb to the highest levels of either politics or business , where they have to do more than their male counterparts to prove themselves .
similar shares say the electorateand corporate america are just not ready to put more women in top leadership positions .
as a result , the public is divided about whether the imbalance in corporate america will change in the foreseeable future , even though women have made major advances in the workplace .
while 53 % believe men will continue to hold more top executive positions in business in the future , 44 % say it ’ s only a matter of time before as many women are in top executive positions as men .
americans are less doubtful when it comes to politics : 73 % expect to see a female president in their lifetime .
people have grown taller over the last century , with south korean women shooting up by more than 20cm on average , and iranian men gaining .
16.5 cm .
a global study looked at the average height of 18 - year-olds in 200 countries 1914 and 2014 .
the results reveal that while swedes were the tallest people in the world in 1914 , dutch men have risen from 12th place to claim top spot with an average height of 182.5 cm .
larvian women .
meanwhile , rose from 28th place in 1914 to become the tallest in the world a century later , with an average height of 169.8 cm .
james bentham , a co-author of the research from imperial college , london , says the global trend is likely to be due primarily to improvements in nutrition and healthcare .
" an individual ’ s genetics has a big influence on their height , but once you average over whole populations , genetics plays a less key role , " he added .
a little extra height brings a number of advantages , says elio riboli of imperial college .
" being taller is associated with longer life expectancy , " he said .
" this is largely due to a lower risk of dying of cardiovasculardisease among taller people . "
but while height has increased around the world , the trend in many countries of north and sub-saharan africa causes concern , says riboli .
while height increased in uganda and niger during the early 20th century , the trend has reversed in recent years , with height decreasing among 18 - year-olds .
" one reason for these decreases in height is the economic situation in the 1980s , " said alexander moradi of the universith of sussex .
the nutritional and health crises that followed the policy of structural adjustment , he says , led to many children and teenagers failing to reach their full potential in terms of height .
bentham believe the global rtend of increasing height has important implications .
" how tall we are now is strongly influenced by the environment we grew up in , " he said .
" if we give children the best possible start in life now , they will be healthier and more productive for decades to come . "
